Amit Shah at Times Now summit

NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that BJP may have suffered in the Delhi assembly elections because of controversial statements made by some party leaders even as he strongly denied the assessment that loss in Delhi was a verdict on CAA or NRC.Speaking at the Times Now summit, Amit Shah said "speeches like 'goli maro' and 'Indo-Pak match' should not have been made by the BJP leaders during the recent Delhi assembly election campaign.""The party immediately distanced itself from these remarks," he said, adding "In the party, the workers are processed through different levels and gradually rise within the ranks. In election campaigning, all levels of workers are in the field. Some worker says something, but people know who is the authorised person within the party to make statements. If some worker ignores the party line and says something, even if he is a senior worker, it can't be the BJP's view."When asked if the BJP suffered in the Delhi assembly elections due to these remarks, Amit Shah said, "perhaps we did. There is no system for people to write why they voted in a particular way, so it will be difficult to know the exact reason, but may be we did suffer."The Union home minister said Delhi election result was not a mandate on the Citizenship Amendment Act and the NRC. "Elections are the result of a combination of several factors. They are not fought and assessed on one issue," he said.Strongly defending CAA and slamming the protests against the Act, Amit Shah said "I am yet to be told the reason for these protests by anyone. Which Article in the Act is an issue? How is this Act anti-Muslim or anti-minority?""CAA's merits should be discussed, and I have answered every question of the opposition in Parliament. I am ready to discuss even today," he added."Anyone who wants to discuss issues related to CAA with me can seek time from my office; will allot time within three days," Amit Shah said adding, "Everyone has a right to protest peacefully."Amit Shah reiterated that the government had taken no steps for NRC, but asserted that the issue was very much a part of the BJP's promise to the people.Clarifying on the NPR update exercise, Amit Shah said that there was no need to show any papers during the process.On the detention of J&K leaders, the Union home minister said the decision has been taken by local administration and the Centre had no role in it."Detention of Omar Abdullah is a local matter, taken care of by local governance. The issue is now in Supreme Court, which will decide it. I personally believe that the legal process should take its course," he said."We do not have any issue with any opposition leader or any citizen visiting Kashmir. Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie were there recently," he added.While backing the people's right to protest peacefully, Amit Shah strongly backed the Delhi police and said "the cops had chased those Jamia students who had burnt down a bus. The protesters have no right to damage public property. I stand with Delhi Police. They took the steps they had to in order to ensure order."Admitting that party's election strategy in Delhi had failed, Amit Shah said "We do not fight elections just for victory or defeat. BJP is a party which believes in expanding its ideology.""We did not leave our ideology even after sitting in Opposition for decades. We had opposed Article 370 then, we've abrogated it now," he said.In Video: Delhi polls: BJP may have suffered due to controversial remarks made by some party leaders, says Amit Shah at Times Now summit