MUMBAI: Former Union minister and noted economist Yoginder Alagh said that the government is time and again seeking the same information from the citizens. "A government which reportedly is very efficient, why don’t they borrow information from each other (share information between departments)," he said when asked about his views on CAA and NRC. Alagh was speaking on the sidelines of an event organised to felicitate economist Dilip Nachane on his 75th birthday, at Mumbai University."I don’t understand, somebody said that the passport is giving wrong information. But that does not mean whatever the fresh information you collect could be good. The passports are verified by the police," he said, adding that he is surprised that the government keeps on collecting the same information again and again. "It doesn’t bother me (personally). I got my Aadhar comfortably..., but I have seen people waiting for five hours. In a country, where in an informal sector, where a day’s salary is important, you are keeping on multiplying the need for more information" said Alagh.Nachane was honoured on his 75th birthday for his contribution to education and the field of economics by the Ambedkar Institute of Social and Economic Change and Ambedkar Institute of Social Justice , Mumbai, on Thursday. Alagh, also the former JNU vice-chancellor, was the chief guest at the event. Bhalchandra Mungekar , former planning commission member was also present.When asked about the current turmoil faced by students in top-rung institutions across the country, Alagh said, “It is very important to appreciate that the youth is the harbinger of change. And if you don’t appreciate that, then you will be in trouble. People have to appreciate that the youth is always interested in questioning the present. It is true, otherwise we would have still been in the stone age. Every time, when young people question me, I always keep telling myself that there must be something in what they are saying."On the Union Budget presented last Friday, Alagh said, "The whole business of good food, tourism, and all is nice. I like it. But what it doesn’t do is what it was meant to do. Where was the economic stimulus? We know that the Budget estimates will be revised in November, when they face a fiscal crunch. I find it very strange, there is no stimulus, which is what the economy needed."