At least 16 of Congress MLAs, including six cabinet ministers, have moved to Karnataka (File | PTI)

The political turmoil in Madhya Pradesh government reached a tipping point on Monday night as CM Kamal Nath-led Congress party in the state plunged into the troubleshooting after several lawmakers, including ministers, supporting Jyotiraditya Scindia flew to Bengaluru amid intensified factionalism in the ruling party ahead of Rajya Sabha polls.

As his government appeared to be on a sticky wicket, Kamal Nath, who met Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi to discuss the political situation as well as nominees for the Rajya Sabha election, cut short his visit and returned to Bhopal on Monday night, where he went into a huddle with Digvijay Singh and other senior leaders at his residence, before calling a cabinet meeting at around 10 pm.

As a last-ditch effort, Kamal Nath has asked for resignation from his cabinet to redistribute portfolios with a focus on rebel MLAs.

The BJP, meanwhile, called a meeting of its MLAs on Tuesday, where sources said Shivraj Singh Chouhan may be elected as the leader of the legislature party.

How the MP govt crisis transpired:

1.42 am: Two former BJP Madhya Pradesh Ministers are flying to Bengaluru. They will land around in Karnataka around 2.30am. They are carrying the right format of resignation letter for the rebel MLAs. Last time in Karnataka, there was much political drama because of the wrong format.

1.23 am: Rebel MLAs likely to hold a press conference in Bengaluru today.

1.15 am: MP BJP in-charge Vinay Sahastrabudhe meets rebel Congress MLAs in Bengaluru.

12.40 am: Digvijay Singh on MP crisis: The right Congressman will remain in the party.

12.30 am: Rajasthan Deputy CM Sachin Pilot says, "I am hopeful that the current crisis in MP ends soon and that leaders are able to resolve differences. The state needs a stable government in order to fulfill the promises made to the electorate."

11:46 pm: Kamal Nath cabinet's minister Sajjan Singh Verma, who just resigned, spoke to media about the late-night meeting but refused to divulge any information on the whereabouts of Jyotiraditya Scindia, who is reportedly leading the rebel by Congress MLAs.

11:45 pm: Umang Singhar, Congress: All the 20 ministers who were here, have tendered their resignations. CM can reconstitute the state cabinet now. All are together. Scindia ji (Jyotiraditya Scindia) also is with Congress. Agar mantrimandal banana hai toh sarkar surakshit hai.

11:43 pm: Resigned from cabinet to defeat BJP's dubious designs, say ministers. Sajjan Singh Verma and PC Sharma, who tendered their resignation from their ministerial births after a late-night meeting with Kamal Nath, told media that they resigned to defeat 'dubious designs of BJP' to topple the Congress government in the state.

11:40 pm: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has reached Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi's residence at 10 Janpath, Delhi.

11:15 pm: All ministers in Madhya Paresh government, who were present at the meeting called by CM, have resigned. CM Kamal Nath is now expected to redistribute the cabinet portfolios with rebel MLAs in focus.

11:08 pm: Kamal Nath asks all ministers to resign, cabinet reconstruction in offing. CM Kamal Nath has asked all cabinet ministers to tender their resignations. All ministers are expected to hand over resignation to the CM after meeting. If all goes to his plan, Kamal Nath will be in a position to reconstitute his cabinet and offer births to rebel MLAs.

11:05 pm: BJP sources have said that if the Kamal Nath government falls, Jyotiraditya Scindia will not get the post of the chief minister. Speculations say that Scindia could be given a Cabinet post at the Centre, while Shivraj Singh Chouhan may get the CM post.

11:02 pm: A press conference is expected shortly by Kamal Nath. The CM has been holding an emergency meeting with senior party leaders like Digvijay Singh at his residence.

11:00 pm: While Scindia loyalists have claimed that at least 20 rebel MLAs have reached Bengaluru, but Kamal Nath loyalists have said that only nine MLAs were missing. India Today TV sources confirmed that nine MLAs are present in Bengaluru resort, no confirmation about the rest.

10:55 pm: Wafer-thin majority: In 2018 Assembly elections, Kamal Nath-led Congress party had dethroned three-time CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan with a small majority of nine seats. At the time of poll results, Congress had 114 MLAs in the House, whereas BJP has 109. The magic number in 230-seat Assembly, with two vacant seats, is 116. Congress made up for the gap with the support of one SP MLA, two BSP MLAs and four independents.

10:30 pm: Will form the government if Kamal Nath government fails, BJP sources said. The BJP, which is being accused of launching Operation Lotus in Madhya Pradesh by poaching Congress MLAs, has said that the incumbent government will fall because of the party in-fighting. "The collapse of Kamla Nath government is imminent, the BJP will explore government formation if Kamal Nath government fails," BJP source told India Today.

10:27 pm: Sources close to Scindia have told India Today TV that he is fighting those who are trying to edge him out of the party. Jyotiraditya Scindia's loyalists claim their leader was humiliated by party seniors. The loyalists have said that not 16, but 20 rebel Congress MLAs are present in Bengaluru, more may reach Bengaluru soon.

10:22 pm: Madhya Pradesh governor to return to Bhopal from Lucknow tomorrow. BJP is expected to reach out to the governor.

10:20 pm: Will BJP repeat its Haryana trick in Madhya Pradesh? As per sources, Shivraj Singh Chouhan -- who had been in Delhi for the past week -- is in touch with Jyotiraditya Scindia. The 'missing' MLAs have gone to Bengaluru with Scindia's secretary, which adds fuel to the speculations that the MLAs are backing Scindia in revolt. The sources say that the BJP could give Scindia a seat in Rajya Sabha and give him a ministerial birth at the Centre.

10:00 pm: Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath has called the meeting of the state Cabinet at his residence here which is expected to begin shortly, hours after senior Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia and at least 16 MLAs who are believed to be supporting him suddenly became 'incommunicado' on Monday.

"After holding a meeting for nearly two hours, the chief minister decided to summon the meeting of the state Cabinet around 10 pm. Nath is expected to make some major announcement at the meeting," sources said.

READ FULL STORY: CM Kamal Nath calls urgent Cabinet meeting at his residence after meeting Sonia Gandhi

09:35 pm: Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. Even as the purpose of the meeting was unknown, the speculations rife that the two met to discuss the ongoing crisis in Madhya Pradesh government. Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who has served as MP CM for three consecutive terms between 2005-2018, sits in opposition due to the wafer-thin gap in number of seats. Before his meeting with Amit Shah, Shivraj Singh Chouhan had met BJP President JP Nadda at party HQ.

Operation Kamal hits Kamal Nath government

According to India Today TV sources, at least 16 Congress MLAs, including six ministers in Kamal Nath cabinet, have moved from Bhopal to Bengaluru. Six BJP MLAs from Madhya Pradesh are also reportedly in Bengaluru.

While sources close to CM Kamal Nath claim that his government is safe and the party is in touch with its MLAs, developments pouring in from Bhopal, Bengaluru and New Delhi suggest otherwise.

The MP unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has also issued a statement saying that it will hold a legislative party meeting at the party office in Bhopal on Tuesday. All BJP MLAs have been invited to attend the meeting to be held at 7 pm on March 10.

As per the PTI report, Kamal Nath met Sonia Gandhi in Delhi to discuss the Rajya Sabha election.

After the meeting, Kamal Nath said any decision on the party's nominees for Rajya Sabha polls would be taken unanimously.

"All issues were discussed with the Congress president and everything will be resolved unanimously," he told reporters.

The Madhya Pradesh chief minister skirted the issue of whether senior Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia can be nominated for the Rajya Sabha seat from the state.

Has Jyotiraditya Scindia revolted?

Speculations are rife that Jyotiraditya Scindia has revolted against CM Kamal Nath. There are reports of Scindia being miffed over the state of affairs in the party and has taken a tough stand in public against the government led by Kamal Nath.

The 'missing' MLAs are allegedly loyal to Scindia, who suddenly became 'incommunicado' on Monday.

The development came against the backdrop of the ruling party accusing the BJP of trying to poach its MLAs to topple the Kamal Nath-led government, which enjoys a wafer-thin majority in the House, and imminent expansion of the state Cabinet.

READ | Madhya Pradesh Assembly crisis: Independent MLA, who was missing, demands state home ministry

ALSO READ | MP: Missing Congress MLA from Anuppur, Bisahulal Singh resurfaces in Bengaluru

WATCH | MP poaching drama: Is Kamal Nath govt in trouble?