New Delhi: Jyotiraditya Scindia will be formally joining the BJP on Wednesday. His candidature for the Rajya Sabha as well as the names of other BJP candidates for the Upper House of Parliament will be announced soon after. The BJP Central Election Committee met on Tuesday evening to discuss the names of candidates for the Rajya Sabha from various states.The BJP is now set to form the government in Madhya Pradesh and its MLAs met Assembly Speaker Narmada Prasad Prajapati to apprise him of the developments. The 20 MLAs who have been lodged in a resort in Bengaluru have sent in their resignations. The number could go up to 30, sources said.Scindia is likely to be made a cabinet minister in the next reshuffle in the Narendra Modi government that may take place in April, after the budget session of Parliament ends. The BJP will begin the process of forming a government in Madhya Pradesh in the coming days and Shivraj Singh Chouhan is likely to be the chief minister.With the support of 121 MLAs, the Kamal Nath government had a thin majority in the Madhya Pradesh Assembly that has an effective strength of 228. The BJP has 107 MLAs, while one lawmaker each of BSP and SP have indicated that they would support the new government.The BJP had sensed an opportunity ever since the Kamal Nath government was formed in late 2018. Scindia was miffed at not being made the chief minister. He also lost the Lok Sabha elections from his family stronghold of Guna. The BJP was waiting for him to make up his mind.Political developments were expedited in the last few weeks when Scindia realised that the Congress may not send him to the Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh. The Congress and BJP can send one member each on the strength of their MLAs in the state, while there is a contest for the third seat.The BJP was active behind the scenes in fanning the rebellion. The 20 rebel MLAs were taken to Karnataka which is under BJP rule. Sources said Chouhan and Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who is an MP from Morena, were instrumental is Scindia’s defection.Scindia met home minister Amit Shah and the two together called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He soon made public his resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on his twitter handle.The BJP rushed vice-president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, who is in charge of the party’s Madhya Pradesh unit, to Bhopal on Tuesday morning to talk to the party MLAs and facilitate Chouhan’s election as the legislature party leader.Kamal Nath did not see the storm coming though there were several indications. Scindia had dropped his Congress credentials from his twitter handle some months back.He had also announced recently that he would take to the streets to get the promises made in the Congress manifesto fulfilled, a development Kamal Nath had rebuffed.