New Delhi: BJP may have got a priced catch in Jyotiraditya Scindia but the party is treading cautiously on the road to forming a government in Madhya Pradesh . Everything hinges on the 22 rebel Congress MLAs and when their resignations are accepted, a condition necessary for turning the Kamal Nath government into a minority.Though the risk in this case is similar to the recent one in Maharashtra where the tie-up with NCP’s Ajit Pawar was short-lived, BJP is ready with a plan for Madhya Pradesh. “Scindia’s MLAs took the first step of resigning. Once that was done, we made the next move of inducting him into BJP. Now, the ball is in the court of the assembly Speaker and the governor or maybe even the courts as the resignations of these rebel MLAs have to be accepted. Without that, the (Nath) government cannot be destabilised,” a senior BJP leader said.There are apprehensions in BJP about how long this process may take. Madhya Pradesh Speaker Narmada Prasad Prajapati has been a close associate of Nath and his election to the post was vehemently opposed by BJP in January 2019. Moreover, BJP speakers in other states have laid a precedent of delaying indefinitely a decision on such matters.Asked if a no-confidence motion is being planned to overcome this hurdle, a BJP functionary said this step can be taken only after the resignations are accepted as the rebels will otherwise be bound by the Congress whip till then. BJP has, in fact, parked its MLAs in Manesar, Haryana, to prevent poaching by Congress.Meanwhile, BJP leaders have denied that Scindia has put a condition that one of his MLAs be made deputy CM if BJP forms government in the state. His suggestions will be considered during Cabinet formation. Only two of the 22 rebel MLAs are said to be miffed at Scindia’s decision to join BJP but others have accepted it, claimed a BJP leader.Incidentally, BJP leaders weren’t forthcoming on whether Shivraj Singh Chouhan will be the CM or not. There is a buzz that he may be made a central office-bearer in JP Nadda’s new team. He is at present a party vice president. “It is premature to discuss who will be the CM,” a leader said. Another senior officebearer, however, said Chouhan is the obvious choice for the post.Although Scindia’s induction has ruffled some feathers in BJP’s MP unit, outgoing Rajya Sabha member from the state, Prabhat Jha, denied rift in the party. “I have served two terms, which means 12 years in the Rajya Sabha. If we call ourselves committed workers there is no question of being unhappy. We will have to accept the decision of the party.”