In the backdrop of Opposition party leaders and activists criticising the move, Justice Ranjan Gogoi has defended the Narendra Modi government's move to nominate him to the Rajya Sabha only four months after his retirement as the Chief Justice of India. He linked the nomination to the process of nation-building.

This is what he said in Guwahati: "I accepted it since I am confident that the legislature and the judiciary must at some point of time work together for nation-building. My presence in the Parliament would be an opportunity to underline the views of the judiciary before the lawmakers and vice- versa."

There is no law or constitutional provision that prohibits such a nomination. Nor is this an unprecedented decision by the government. Still, it is not a common practice that a government nominates or appoints a former Supreme Court judge or even a high court judge to some office within months of her or his retirement.

But there is a recommendation of the Law Commission of India that considered the question of such nominations and appointments before forming a negative opinion. It was the 14th report of the Law Commission of India, and was made in 1958 when Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was the prime minister of the country.

In paragraph 28 of the report, the Law Commission says, "we have noticed the only bar imposed on a Judge of the Supreme Court who has retired is that he shall not thereafter plead or act in any Court or before any authority. In the result some Supreme Court Judges have, after retirement, set up chamber practice while some others have found employment in important positions under the Government. We have grave doubts whether starting chamber practice after retirement is consistent with the dignity of these retired judges and consonant with the high traditions which retired judges observe in other countries."

Paragraph 29 of the same report of the Law Commission is more direct saying, "But there can be no doubt that it is clearly undesirable that Supreme Court Judges should look forward to other Government employment after their retirement."

Explaining the reason for why Supreme Court judges should resist such offers from the government, the Law Commission report says, "The Government is a party in a large number of causes [cases] in the highest Court and the average citizen may well get the impression, that a judge who might look forward to being employed by the Government after his retirement, does not bring to bear on his work that detachment of outlook which is expected of a judge in cases in which Government is a party."

"We are clearly of the view that the practice has a tendency to affect the independence of the judges and should be discontinued," the Law Commission concluded.

This report was never implemented.

Justice Ranjan Gogoi headed the benches of the Supreme Court that decided politically volatile cases such as the Rafale deal and the Ayodhya title dispute. Both cases ended in judgments that suited the BJP, the party ruling at the Centre.

In the Rafale deal case, the Congress alleged malfeasance with then party president Rahul Gandhi accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of having been personally involved. The case was settled during the run up to the 2019 Lok Sabha election. In Ayodhya title dispute case, the BJP favoured construction of a Ram temple at the site where Mughal era Babri Masjid stood till 1992. The case was decided days before Justice Gogoi retired in November 2019.

Justice Gogoi's case is not an exception though.

Former CJI P Sathasivam became Kerala governor in 2014 within four months of his retirement from the Supreme Court. Incidentally, he was on the bench that decided a fake encounter case in which Amit Shah, now the Union home minister, had been named. Amit Shah had got a clean chit in that case.

Two more such cases became national headlines. One was of Justice Sunil Gaur of the Delhi High Court. On August 20 in 2019, Justice Gaur dismissed Former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram's petition seeking protection from arrest in a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).

In his verdict, Justice Gaur had held Chidambaram as a potential "kingpin" of the money laundering scandal involving INX Media. This ruling led to arrest of Chidambaram.

Justice Gaur retired on August 23 and within a week, was appointed the chairman of the Appellate Tribunal for the PMLA. Besides, he had also dealt with the cases of VVIP chopper scam and National Herald in which Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were named.

The other controversy involved former Supreme Court judge Justice AK Sikri, who had been nominated by the government to an international tribunal. Justice Sikri was on the panel that removed then CBI chief Alok Verma in 2019 in the middle of a virtual war within the agency.

Justice Sikri sided with PM Modi's or the government's opinion in removing Verma. The other member of the panel was Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress who was against removing the CBI chief, a post which is otherwise protected under the law.

But the Modi government is not the only one in roping in Supreme Court judges.

There is a long list of justices having been "favoured" by the government of the day. Former CJI M Hidayatullah was appointed the vice president in 1979 nine years after his retirement. Justice Bahrul Islam was nominated to the Rajya Sabha some five months after he resigned from the Supreme Court. Both decisions were taken by the Indira Gandhi government.

In 1998, when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister, the Congress under Sonia Gandhi nominated former CJI Rangnath Misra for the Rajya Sabha election.

Meanwhile, former CJI TS Thakur declined the Aam Aadmi Party's offer to contest the Rajya Sabha election in 2017.

Appointments and nominations of retired judges have been happening for decades. In most cases, those in Opposition have been voicing against the practice taking high moral ground. The Congress and other Opposition parties are doing right now what BJP leaders earlier did.

Former union finance and law minister late Arun Jaitley had said in 2012: "There are two kinds of judges - those who know the law and those who know the law minister" before adding, "Pre-retirement judgements are influenced by post-retirement jobs."

Two key suggestions have come in recent times. Then in Opposition, Nitin Gadkari - now a powerful Union minister - had suggested a two-year cooling-off period for the judges before they could take up a position under the government. Former CJI RM Lodha suggested creation of a pool of retired judges who are willing to take up post-retirement jobs.