The Congress has decided to contest both the Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat despite five of its MLAs have resigned from the party.'

In a meeting between Congress leaders of the state and observers BK Hari Prasad and Rajni Patil, the state leaders said that they technically only need one vote and with the support of Jignesh Mewani the party can sail through.

The first seat will go to Shakti Singh Gohil and second seat for Bharat Singh Solanki. Now the son of former Chief Minister Solanki has to ensure his win and party leaders say that the goodwill of his father can get him more votes than expected.

Party observer Hari prasad said that, "We are hopeful to win both the seats."

Meanwhile, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel has claimed that more Congress MLAs are set to resign from the party.

The Congress has appointed two observers in Rajasthan. Randeep Singh Surjewala and TS Singhdeo will oversee elections in the state where the BJP has fielded fourth candidate Onkar Singh Lakhawat.

In Madhya Pradesh, Mukul Wasnik and Harish Rawat have already been pitched in to manage MLAs. These three states are the core of contention between both the parties.

In West Bengal, the nomination papers of the Trinamool-backed independent candidate has been rejected so there will be no contest in the state and Congress-backed CPM candidate is likely to be elected unopposed.

The BJP wants to retain its number in the upper house but in Haryana the BJP has not pushed for contest where the government is surviving on the support of the JJP and independents MLAs.

In Maharashtra too, there is no contest and all the candidates will get elected unopposed.

The Congress can defeat the BJP in Jharkhand where it has fielded the third candidate to tap in the floating votes. The BJP needs 27 votes but has only 26 and the game will depend on the All Jharkhand Students Union (AJSU). The Congress in-charge of Jharkhand RPN Singh is confident that the Congress candidate will sail through.

The Congress has 18 MLAs and with surplus votes of the JMM and if the AJSU decides not to vote for the ruling coalition, the BJP candidate Deepak Prakash is likely to bite the dust. JMM leader Shibu Soren is set to go to the Rajya Sabha.

In Bihar, there is no contest as also in Chhattisgarh where the Congress is set to win two seats.

ALSO READ | Rajasthan Deputy CM Sachin Pilot backs Congress leader KC Venugopal's Rajya Sabha candidature

ALSO READ | Scindia spillover: Congress loses 1 Rajya Sabha seat in Gujarat even before election