In what could be termed as a heartwarming act of humanity, the protesters at Shaheen Bagh opened the road at the protest venue, letting a Hindu funeral procession pass smoothly.



In a video, which has gone viral since morning, the protesters can be seen removing barricades for the funeral procession of a Hindu person to pass.

The protesters, however, said that there was nothing unusual about the incident and it was done out of mutual respect.

Twitter

Speaking on the issue, a protester said, "We respect each other and by allowing the procession to pass through, we have not done anything unusual. We have allowed buses and ambulances also." The gesture won several hearts even on social media.

Delhi: Protestors allowed a funeral procession to pass through a road in Shaheen Bagh, earlier today. Shaheen, a protestor says "We respect each other and by allowing the procession to pass through, we have not done anything unusual. We have allowed buses&ambulances also". pic.twitter.com/kChuzRIAQW — ANI (@ANI) February 9, 2020

Don't Miss 238 SHARES 535 SHARES 648 SHARES 4.3 K SHARES

#ShaheenBagh protestors allowed Hindu funeral to pass without passport and Visa.

India should put out an official statement in appreciation to #ShaheenBagh government 👏 https://t.co/lvuWEQdpTe — Ninda Turtle (@NindaTurtles) February 9, 2020

Shaheen Bagh protesters open up barricades to let a Hindu funeral procession pass.

Please show it to the anti nationals who call Shaheen baghis anti nationals.#शाहीनबाग़Protest🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/l5ktaXzV3a — Rofl Sinha (@RoflSinha) February 9, 2020

Protesters at #ShaheenBagh promptly remove the barricades to allow a Hindu funeral procession to pass through peacefully.

Humanity knows no boundaries#CAA_NRCProtestspic.twitter.com/AiaST5PRn6 — Rofl Republic 🍋🌶 (@i_theindian) February 9, 2020

Even as politicians are making controversial statements against the women of Shaheen Bagh at the protest sight, the enthusiasm remains the same.

The area had lately gained nationwide attention due to a continued anti-CAA sit-in by people, especially Muslim women against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), National Population Register and National Register of Citizens.