Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap on Friday expressed his solidarity with anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters outside Jamia Millia Islamia and assured them that they were not alone in their struggle and asked them to have patience as it was going to be a long fight.

“When the CAA was passed, I used to believe that we are finished and dead... but coming here today I’m convinced that we are alive,” Mr. Kashyap said, adding that the fight was to “take the Constitution, country and everything back”.

“Everyday I read stories and watch videos about you people. This gives me strength. What is happening gives us the understanding and strength that we have an existence,” he added.

Standing atop a table, he addressed the gathering and said that what we needed today was transparency. “A government that says different things each time can no longer be believed for its saying but only by its actions,” he said.

Mr. Kashyap said he had left Twitter but reopened the account in December after the police allegedly attacked students and entered the Jamia campus. “I had left everything and went away but I changed my mind after seeing what happened in Jamia in December. I saw a video of a girl and that gave me the courage to return to Twitter. Now I will not stay silent,” he said.

‘Protest must go on’

He added that no matter what happens, a non violent protest should continue till its aims are won.

“This government knows how to deal with violence, but would always be trumped by peace, love and empathy,” he said.

After his Jamia visit, he went to Shaheen Bagh and met the famed Dadis of the protest and also relished some biryani — the famous dish that has become a subject of contention between those in favour of and opposed to the CAA and NRC across the country.

Mr. Kashyap took to the stage and asked protesters to not give any reason to those in power to evacuate them from the site.

“When you fight for your rights, it is important that you stick with your truth. Don’t give them any chance that they can violently remove you from here They do not understand the language of love. This is the only way to fight with them because they themselves do not know what they want,” he said.

Potshots at Shah

He also took potshots at Home Minister Amit Shah during his speech, saying he personally would not believe whatever the government claimed about the CAA.

“If we are misinformed, come and explain it to us,” Kashyap said, hailing the protesters for continuing the demonstration which started on December 15.

(With PTI inputs)