Kanhaiya Kumar garlanding an idol of Mahatma Gandhi in Champaran.

Amid high drama, CPM leader #KanhaiyaKumar set off on his ‘Save Constitution, Save Citizenship Satyagraha yatra’ fr… https://t.co/Stmc5ylSN3 — TOI Patna (@TOIPatna) 1580393156000

BETTIAH/MOTIHARI: Amid high drama, CPM leader Kanhaiya Kumar set off on his ‘Save Constitution, Save Citizenship Satyagraha yatra’ from Mahatma Gandhi’s Bhitiharwa Ashram in West Champaran on Thursday. The former JNUSU president battled a haze of indigo blues on the Gandhi’s martyrdom anniversary marked by cancellation of his scheduled public meeting at Bettiah, rumours of his arrest or detention and a flood of fake news to garland the idols of Mahatma Gandhi and Kasturba Gandhi He addressed a large crowd assembled outside the Bhitiharwa Ashram before being escorted beyond the boundaries of West Champaran via a circuitous route that dodged the waiting crowds near Bettiah. Greeting another large crowd at the Sports Club in Motihari later in the afternoon, Kanhaiya alleged that he was stopped at Bhitiharwa in a conspiracy that was thwarted by Jan-Samarthan ( people’s support).Kanhaiya’s Champaran yatra was preceded by clashes at Bettiah’s Meena Bazar on Wednesday when Bharat bandh supporters protesting against CAA-NRC clashed with shopkeepers. An ugly situation was saved by the prompt action by an alert district administration. “The permission for his public meeting (at the Aerodrome grounds) here was cancelled as meeting grounded was not adequately barricaded,” West Champaran DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore told TOI.The Bettiah meeting cancelled, a crowd began assembling at Kudiya Kothi, site of a Raj-era indigo factory, 6 km from Bettiah as word-of-mouth and WhatsApp messages said that Kanhaiya would hold a meeting here on his way back from Bhitiharwa. Police kept vigil at Kudiya Kothi. Meanwhile, Kanhaiya – after spending the night at his CPM comrade Om Prash Kranti’s house in Chanpatia- was stopped from leaving Kranti’s residence at 8 am. Allowed an hour later, as he drove out towards Bhitiharwa, a handful of BJP supporters shouted “ Go Back Kanhaiya’ slogans near the Sikrahana bridge near Chanpatia.A massive crowd greeted Kanhaiya, accompanied by his fellow JNUite and Congress MLA from Kadwa ( Katihar) Shakeel Ahmad Khan, as he entered the ashram gate to pay obeisance to Gandhi ji on his martyrdom day. A CPM press release claimed that he was arrested. “ Was stopped” would be Kanhaiya’s statement later at Motihari.Thanking the Bhitiharwa crowd for coming in such numbers on Gandhi’s day of martyrdom, Kanhaiya said that the Mahatma was murdered because of his adherence to “ Ishwar-Allah Tero Naam, Sabko Sanmati De Bhagwan” hymn and credo. “ Today we are in a situation where hatred is being fanned, a Hindu-Muslim divide is being deepened....people in their own country are being considered second class citizens.”“I was supposed to go to Motihari from here after a programme in Bettiah. But Police, administration say: ‘aapka permission cancel kar diya gaya hai,” Kanhaiya’s statement evoked a “ Modi ji ka police hai” reaction from the crowd. A commotion erupted, only to be calmed by Kanhaiya. “He had the permission ( to address the people at Bhitiharwa),” DM Deore said, adding that the circulation of fake news ( on the contrary) was unfortunate.Meanwhile at Kudiya Kothi, the ‘Kanhaiya arrested’ rumours and fake news were negated by ‘ Facebook live’ streaming that encaptured the assembled crowd huddled in groups glued to Kanhaiya’s Bhitiharwa speech on smartphones. An hour later, the crowd at the erstwhile indigo factory grounds began to disperse as news filtered in that Kanhaiya had been whisked out of the district through a diversionary route via the Triveni canal to Mainatar- Ghogha- Sariswa- Piparpainti bridge onto to the NH 28 B on the Sugauli- Raxaul road enroute Motihari.At Motihari, describing the CAA-NRC as ‘black law’, Kanhaiya said: “ We do not acknowledge a government that does not consider us as citizens.” He appealed that people assemble at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan on February 29 at the culmination of his yatra that he has set out from Champaran to cover Bihar Talking to TOI over phone, Kanhaiya said, “The administration is under pressure and officials were intentionally creating trouble to stop me from holding public meet. This is undemocratic.”Even Shakeel alleged there was nothing wrong with the protest site at Bettiah and they had followed all the instructions given by the administration. “District administration officials inspected the site with me on Wednesday and first demanded tricolour to be removed from the stage. In late evening they cancelled our permission to hold a public gathering there citing security reasons, but the fact is they are working on instruction of a particular political party.”(With inputs from Sheezan Nezami in Patna)