Seelampur, another minority seat in northeast Delhi that saw violence and arson on December 17 last year, recorded 71.22 per cent voting. (Express photo: Praveen Khanna) Seelampur, another minority seat in northeast Delhi that saw violence and arson on December 17 last year, recorded 71.22 per cent voting. (Express photo: Praveen Khanna)

Emerging as a clear majority in Delhi Assembly polls and set to return as the Chief Minister of the national capital for the third consecutive time, Arvind Kejriwal Tuesday was thankful to the people for keeping faith in his party, stating they have chosen the politics of development. “This is the beginning of a new kind of politics. This is a new sign,” he said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), whose campaign was focussed on Shaheen Bagh and protests against the new citizenship law, has won 62 seats, while the BJP improved its tally by winning eight seats. Congress, on the other hand, faced a rout in the second consecutive Assembly election in the national capital.

Okhla: AAP sitting MLA Amanatullah Khan won in Okhla, which houses Shaheen Bagh, the epicenter of the protests against the Citizenship Act, by a margin of 71,827 votes. Khan secured 130,163 votes, while BJP’s Braham Singh stood managed to bag 58,499 votes. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Okhla candidate Amanatullah Khan had said, “Dilli ki janta ne aaj BJP aur Amit Shah ji ko current lagane ka kaam kiya hai, ye kaam ki jeet huyi hai aur nafrat ki haar. Maine nahi, janta ne record (his lead margin) toda hai. (People of Delhi have given a current to BJP and Amit Shah. This is the victory of work and defeat of hatred).”

Shaheen Bagh recorded a voter turnout of 58.8 per cent. (Express photo: Yashee) Shaheen Bagh recorded a voter turnout of 58.8 per cent. (Express photo: Yashee)

Okhla constituency, which includes Shaheen Bagh, the hotbed of the anti-CAA protests in the capital where women have been on a sit-in for over 50 days, recorded a voter turnout of 58.8 per cent, the election watchdog said. Shaheen Bagh falls in Okhla constituency, which also constitutes Zakir Nagar, Batla House, Jasola, Kalindi colony, Abul Fazal Enclave, Okhla Vihar, Sarita Vihar, Madanpur Khadar, etc.

Seelampur: Another seat with a sizable Muslim population that saw violence during anti-CAA protests on December 17 last year, AAP’s Abdul Rehman won in Seelampur by a margin of over 36,920 votes. Rehman secured 72,611 votes, while standing as a candidate for the BJP was Kaushal Kumar Mishra who bagged 35,619 votes.

Seelampur recorded 71.22 per cent voting. Congress had won Seelampur seat for three consecutive elections – 2003, 2008 and 2013 – before AAP leader Mohd Ishraque clinched by defeating BJP’s Sanjay Jain in 2015 by a margin of 27,887 votes. This time, AAP has fielded Abdul Rehman against BJP’s Kaushal Kumar Mishra and Congress’ Chaudhary Mateen Ahmad.

Silent protest in Shaheen Bagh amid counting of votes. (Express photo: Yashee) Silent protest in Shaheen Bagh amid counting of votes. (Express photo: Yashee)

Matia Mahal: In Matia Mahal, which also saw violence and arson, AAP’s Shoiab Iqbal won by a gap of 50,241 votes. Iqbal secured 67,250 votes, while BJP’s Ravinder Gupta managed to get 17,024 votes. In the last assembly elections, the seat was won by Asim Ahmed Khan of the AAP by a margin of 26,096 votes. Asim Ahmed Khan defeated INC candidate (Shoaib Iqbal). This time, the major contest is between AAP’s Shoaib Iqbal and BJP’s Ravinder Gupta. The Congress has fielded Mirza Javed Ali.

In Photos | AAP celebrates as early trends show majority

Mustafabad: In Mustafabad, which is a minority-dominated constituency, AAP’s Haji Yunus won by a margin of 20,704 votes. Yunus secured 98,681 votes, while BJP’s Jagdish Pradhan secured 77,845 votes in the constituency. Situated in northeast Delhi, Mustafabad recorded 70.55 per cent turnout. Mustafabad is one of the three seats won by the BJP in 2015. The incumbent BJP MLA, Jagdish Pradhan, is fighting against AAP’s Haji Yunus and Congress’s Ali Mehndi in the seat

Pollsters on Saturday had placed the ruling party AAP in a comfortable position, indicating a return to power for Arvind Kejriwal in the national capital. The results for the elections will be announced on February 11.

For the latest coverage on Delhi Election Results 2020 log on to IndianExpress.com. We bring you the fastest updates on assembly elections results 2020. Stay Connected.

📣 The Indian Express is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlines

For all the latest Elections News, download Indian Express App.

© IE Online Media Services Pvt Ltd