After making his unfiltered opinions heard on social media, filmmaker Anurag Kashyap showed up for the country at Jamia Millia Islamia and joined the anti-CAA protest.

Expressing solidarity with the students of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) who are protesting against CAA and NRC, film director Anurag Kashyap on Friday said the crowd gives him strength and the ongoing struggle has made everyone realize "that we are empowered and not just a herd of sheep."

Anurag delivered a speech in Hindi where he reiterated that he does not support the NRC or the CAA and that it is a "fight of patience" urging the students and other protesters gathered not to lose hope.

Anurag also confessed that it was his first visit to Jamia and that he feels alive as he steps into the premise.

He said, "Main Jamia main pehli baar aaya hoon. Kahin lag raha tha hum mar gaye hain, par yahan aa kar laga ki hum zinda hain."

"The crowd gives me strength. The ongoing struggle has made everyone realize that we are empowered and not just a herd of sheep," said Kashyap to the cheers of the gathering protesting against the Centre's Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). Kashyap went on to say that the resistance which started in Jamia further inspired JNU and subsequently the rest of the nation.

"Now, there is a pressing need for more people to come together to safeguard the nation and the Constitution," he said.

He urged the protesters to raise their voice without partaking in violence even when provoked, and hold their ground until all their questions are answered satisfactorily. He openly questioned the role of the Home Minister in controlling dissent.

bccl

Don't Miss 638 SHARES 648 SHARES 1.3 K SHARES 16.6 K SHARES 10.5 K SHARES

He said, "Home minister ka kaam hota hai humari security. Woh dissent dabane ka kaam karte hain." Anurag further questioned and recalled how there were no arrests made post the Jamia violence.

"No arrests were made in Jamia violence. The police need to do their job, they need to identify woh kaun log the."

Anurag's speech was a clear-cut super hit among the students who couldn't stop rooting and applauding him. When some started peaceful sloganeering and also urged Kashyap to join him, he politely added, "Main naare nahi lagata. Main sirf dil ki baat kehta hoon."

Kashyap concluded his speech by exhorting the protesters to not budge from their stand even in the face of adversity.

bccl

He emphasized that the fight cannot be won with force but peace and patience.



(With agency inputs)