For a floor test first: On Madhya Pradesh crisis (The Hindu)

Mains Paper 2:Polity

Prelims level: Floor test

Mains level:Indian Constitution- historical underpinnings, evolution, features, amendments, significantprovisions and basic structure

Context:

Propriety and law require the Kamal Nath-led Congress government in Madhya Pradesh to prove its majority on the floor of the legislature at the earliest.

Delaying tactics by Mr. Nath with more than a little help from the Speaker, who has adjourned the Assembly until March 26, go against democratic principles.

Equally, Governor Lalji Tandon’s position that the government will be presumed to have lost the majority unless it takes a floor test immediately is untenable.

The BJP might have been morally deviant, but Kamal Nath must prove his majority quickly.

Morality and legality:

The situation in the State raises other questions of morality and legality also, as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) innovates questionable routes to power that it did not win in the election.

The Congress had won a narrow .................................................

CLICK HERE FOR FULL EDITORIAL (Only for Course Members)

Approach to the Supreme Court:

The BJP, the Congress and the rebel MLAs have all approached the Supreme Court which has taken up the matter with urgency.

The BJP is replaying the script that it ...........................................

CLICK HERE FOR FULL EDITORIAL (Only for Course Members)

Conclusion:

Engineered resignations of lawmakers have become a new tool for sabotaging mandates and camouflaging defections.

When the top court adjudicates on the Madhya Pradesh petitions, this larger point must be taken into consideration.

The situation demands new guidelines by the Court to deal with the now-familiar malaise, beyond setting a reasonably quick deadline for a floor test. Click here to Join IAS PRE Online Course General Studies Pre. Cum Mains Study Materials

Prelims Questions:

Q.1)With reference to the Torreites sanchezi, consider the following statements:

1. According to a new study of fossil mollusk shells from the late Cretaceous, Earth spun 372 times a year 70 million years ago, compared to the current 365.

2. Torreites sanchezi, an extinct species of rudist clam that lived during the Cretaceous period, some 70 million years ago, grew fast, laying down daily growth rings.

Which of the statements given above is/are correct?

(a) 1 only

(b) 2 only

(c) Both 1 and 2

(d) Neither 1 nor 2

Answer:......................................................................

CLICK HERE FOR FULL EDITORIAL (Only for Course Members)