Vodafone Idea liability is estimated to be around ₹53,038 crore.

The IAS topper and J&K People’s Movement chief is the seventh prominent mainstream J&K politician to face the stringent law. Mr. Faesal was detained at the Delhi International Airport in the second week of August following his interviews to several media channels, expressing strong views against the Centre’s move to revoke J&K’s special status.

Justice Chandrachud also said that use of state machinery to curb dissent instils fear, which violates the rule of law. | Peaceful agitators not traitors: Bomaby High Court

Following the anti-CAA protests in Washermanpet in Chennai and the police action against the protesters late on February 14, agitations have erupted and continued in other parts of the State. | Opposition parties in TN condemn police action against anti-CAA protesters

New Delhi urges Ankara to ‘develop proper understanding of facts’.

According to the Washington Post, “the borders on Google’s online maps display Kashmir as fully under Indian control. Elsewhere, users see the region’s snaking outlines as a dotted line, acknowledging the dispute”.

Pakistan anti-corruption officials raided the properties of the former Pakistan Prime Minister in Lahore to collect evidence in a money laundering case, even as his mother left for London to be with her son ahead of his cardiac treatment.

Azhar was listed as a designated terrorist by UNSC1267 Committee on May 1, 2019.

Beijing's latest figures on Saturday showed 66,492 cases and 1,523 deaths, mostly in central Hubei Province. Outside mainland China there have been about 500 cases in some two dozen countries and territories, with four deaths in Japan, Hong Kong, the Philippines and France.| All about the China coronavirus and COVID-19

After the first meeting of the RBI board post 2020-21 Budget presentation, Mr. Das also expressed hope that transmission of rate cuts would improve further.

The SAI Director-General made the announcement while responding to congratulatory tweets by Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra and Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju. The official said he had directed the Bengaluru Regional Director to get in touch with Mr. Gowda and added SAI needed help in identifying many more such talents.

The 23-year-old athlete clocked 1 hour 29 minutes and 54 seconds, well inside the Olympic qualification time.