Congress leader Digvijaya Singh has claimed that BJP leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan is trying to destabilise the Kamal Nath government of Madhya Pradesh just ahead of the Rajya Sabha election.

Truth is one, but the wise men know it as many; God is one, but we can approach Him in many ways. This is an ancient wisdom from the world of spirituality. Politics may appear to be the antidote of contrast to spirituality. But Madhya Pradesh Congress's crisis hovering over the Kamal Nath government is the closest political narrative to the old wisdom.

There have been as many interpretations to the "disappearance", "recovery" and "emergence" at a different site of the MLAs from a group of legislators propping the Kamal Nath government of the Congress. There are many sub-plots in the political drama playing out in Madhya Pradesh.

CHANGE OF POWER

That the BJP is trying to dislodge the Kamal Nath government is the most-repeated theory behind the Madhya Pradesh Congress crisis. Some have called it Operation Rangpanchami - unseating of the Congress by the BJP during Holi. Operation Kamal, however, is the common refrain to describe this attempted coup.

It began with Congress leader - and a political wizard of Madhya Pradesh - Digvijaya Singh claiming that Shivraj Singh Chouhan of the BJP is eyeing to come back to power through horse-trading in the state.

Digvijaya Singh said, "I don't speak without evidenceShivraj Singh Chouhan and Narottam Mishra [another BJP leader] are behind this."

A total of 10 MLAs including those belonging to the Congress had "disappeared" from Madhya Pradesh and, as per claims, were "being kept" in a luxury hotel in Gurgaon near Delhi by the BJP. That Shivraj Singh Chouhan was in Delhi at the time appeared to be a corroboration to evidence that Digvijaya Singh claimed to have in his possession.

Digvijaya Singh - not Kamal Nath if insiders can be trusted with the information - sent his son Jaivardhan Singh and Jitu Patwari - both ministers in the Congress-led government - to rescue the MLAs.

They claimed to have "rescued" four of the MLAs from the Gurgaon hotel. Two more returned to the fold, it was claimed.

To deny the charges leveled by Digvijaya Singh and late also by Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath, Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Narottam Mishra said their hands were clean but both asserted the Congress government "will fall under its own weight". Mishra even claimed that due to "dissatisfaction" with the Kamal Nath government around 20 Congress MLAs were in his touch.

Later, four MLAs supporting the Kamal Nath government travelled to Bengaluru and were reported to be staying at a resort. These are the "missing" MLAs for the ruling dispensation in Madhya Pradesh. It was the resort politics that ultimately brought the BJP back to power in Karnataka last year after having lost the race to the Congress-JDS fire-power in 2018, the year Shivraj Singh government was voted out of power in Madhya Pradesh.

Kamal Nath government is standing on the support of 113 Congress MLAs in 230-member Madhya Pradesh Assembly. It had - before the disappearance drama began - the backing of four Independent MLAs, two - including one suspended from the party and now rescued from the Gurgaon hotel ?- from the BSP and one SP legislator.

For a dislodging attempt, it would be the third time that the BJP has tried to oust the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government in eight months. The two previous attempts came out in public domain in July and November last year.

In July, the BJP attempted to fuel ambitions of seven Congress MLAs from Gwalior-Chambal region. The Congress outsmarted the BJP with the "ghar wapasi" of two of the turncoats winning assembly election on Lotus symbol.

In November, the Congress MLAs from Malwa-Nimar region were targeted. But they reportedly chickened out at the last moment. Learning from the "mistakes", the BJP - if Digvijaya Singh really means what he is saying - picked its "horses" from wider geographical terrain.

However, Kamal Nath and all other Congress leaders have exuded confidence that the government is "safe" and continues to be in "stable" condition. Kamal Nath, in fact, suggested the "disappearing" MLAs should take money from whoever is offering and remain in his camp.

Now, the second interpretation.

RAJYA SABHA ELECTION

Many within and outside the Congress party have linked the Madhya Pradesh's political crisis to the Rajya Sabha election due for March 26. Nationally, the Rajya Sabh election will be held for 55 seats including one nominated. In Madhya Pradesh, three seats are going vacant.

The three Madhya Pradesh Rajya Sabha seats are currently held by Satyanarayan Jatiya and Prabhat Jha of the BJP, and Digvijaya Singh of the Congress. The BJP has its own issues in deciding who to send to the Rajya Sabha but the Congress is fighting its own demon.

With each candidate needing support of 58 MLAs - first preferential vote - to win, both the Congress (113) and the BJP (107) are sure of winning one seat each. The fight is for the second seat.

Theories are abound as to who wants to make his claim foolproof. Among the names floating are Digvijaya Singh and Shivraj Singh Chouhan.

Speculation that the Congress high command in New Delhi wants to send Priyanka Gandhi to the Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh has added fuel to the fire. This makes one seat reserved in the Congress and other open as it lacks the enough number on its own.

This also opens up the avenues for the BJP to embarrass the Congress by stealing the second seat, for which the party is in a limbo itself. Suggestions are that the central leadership of the BJP wants Shivraj Singh Chouhan moving to the national politics with someone younger taking over in Madhya Pradesh.

But among the retiring BJP MPs one is a Dalit leader - Jatiya - while the other is an RSS product - Jha. Dispensing of anyone of them to bring in Shivraj Singh Chouhan may have its own consequences. Jatiya is more likely to retain his nomination. To have Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the BJP needs dissension in the Congress and backers' rank.

Ultimately, it is a battle between Digvijaya Singh-two successive term chief minister-and his three-term chief ministerial successor Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Madhya Pradesh minister Umang Singhar left little doubt with his tweet.

?????? ?????? ?? ?? ????? ????? ??? ?? ???????? ??. ?? ???????? ??? ???? ?? ????? ??,???? ?? ?? ?????? ????????? Umang Singhar (@UmangSinghar) March 4, 2020

Finally, the interpretation from the ground.

THAT DIVIDED HOUSE OF CONGRESS

The Congress, which came to power in 2018, after 15 years in Madhya Pradesh has been a divided house ever since. The three factions -led by Digvijaya Singh, Kamal Nath and Jyotiraditya Scindia- have been at war among themselves.

Kamal Nath has, reportedly, complained that Digvijaya Singh interferes in the government. Digvijaya Singh-Kamal Nath feud was so serious that Umang Singhar last year called him a "Super CM".

Jyotiraditya Scindia, on the other hand, has made no bones about his displeasure with the Kamal Nath government. He has been consistently complaining that the promises are not being fulfilled. In nutshell, Scindia wants Kamal Nath out.

Further, the three Congress stalwarts have Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee president's election on their minds. Kamal Nath is the MPCC president. He had offered last year to quit from the position but did not. Each of the three Congress leaders are said to be eyeing the post either for themselves or someone they could dictate their terms to. The new state unit chief may be elected/appointed in coming months.

This internecine fight has left a number of MLAs -belonging to each camps- frustrated with many complaining that their voices are not being heard in the government and the party. Such a situation has been the fertile ground for a BJP comeback in other states through various versions of Operation Kamal.