Ahmedabad: With the BJP fielding Congress turncoat Narhari Amin as its third candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections from Gujarat , the process of sending representatives to the Upper House is now set to be a tough contest. As all five candidates from both the parties filed their nomination on Friday, Congress insiders maintained that the party legislators may soon be shifted to a Congress-ruled state to keep them away from being poached.Of the four seats in Gujarat that go to poll on March 26, currently, three are held by BJP candidates Kanji Gohel , Lalsinh Vadodia and Shambhuprasad Tundiya while Congress heavyweight Madhusudan Mistry holds the sole Congress seat.BJP had earlier announced Abhay Bharadwaj, a Brahmin from Rajkot and Ramila Bara, a tribal as its candidates` following which, Congress had named Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki. While Gohil is a Kshatriya from Bhavnagar, Solanki is an OBC Kshatriya from central Gujarat.Given the numerical strength of both the parties, sending these four to Raja Sabha wouldn’t have necessitated an election. However, in a last minute twist, BJP brought in Narhari Amin, a Patidar candidate with roots in Congress as its third candidate, changing the equilibrium and turning the table on Congress, which is now forced to keep it s f lock together. BJ P has 103 MLAs whi le Congress has 73. After securing two candidates, BJP wil l be left with 29 votes while Congress will have 36 votes to secure its second candidate after winning the first seat. It’s learnt Gohil is the Congress candidate for the f irst seat while Solanki is for the second seat, which will face a fight from the third nominee of BJP.In 2017, a stream of Congress legislators had defected to BJP just ahead of the Rajya Sabha Polls. The Congress had experienced similar attrition even last year when Alpesh Thakore and his aide Dhavalsinh had cross voted for the BJP candidate and resigned from the party. “As of now, we need at best four votes from Congress for our third candidate to win and with al l the clamour within Congress, it doesn’t look too difficult,” said a senior BJP worker. As it is, there is considerable heartburn within Congress regarding the candidates as many other bigwigs too had thrown their hats in the ring.Patidar MLAs as well as the Koli Patels had sought their representation in the Upper house. Now, with BJP fielding the sole Patidar candidate, juxtaposed with the internal opposition in Congress against Bharatsinh Solanki, it may cost the party its second seat.