Bowing to people pressure in the state Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has changed his stand on the contentious National Population Register (NPR) exercise. He has now appealed to the central government to update the NPR by collecting population data in the 2010 format.

This comes close on the heels of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's similar assertion that the Centre should collect data for NPR.

Jagan Mohan Reddy had earlier extended support to the Citizenship Amedment Act in Parliament and also to the NPR exercise. But on Tuesday, he took to his personal handle on Twitter, to say that there are apprehensions in a section of society. He cited it as the reason why he is opposed to the NPR in the new format.

He reaffirmed the shift in his stand by stating that the legislative assembly that is meeting later this month for the budget session will also pass a resolution to this effect.

"Some of the questions proposed in the NPR are causing insecurities in the mind of minorities of my State. After consultations within our party, we have decided to request the central government to revert the conditions to those prevailing in 2010," he tweeted.

The decision has surprised many as the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress (YSRC) is reckoned to be an ally of the BJP steered National Democratic Alliance even though it is not a constituent of the alliance.

However, it is not clear yet what the state would do if the central government decided to go ahead with the NPR exercise relying on the 2020 format. The basic difference between the two formats is in collecting data of parents' place and date of birth that created apprehensions particularly among Muslims.

As many as 15 details of identity of individual members of each household were gathered during the 2010 head count. But in 2020, the Centre wants to collect additional information pertaining to mother tongue, places and date of births of both parents even if they are not living in the same house, or even alive.

Leaders belonging to Muslim community in the party, including deputy chief minister SB Amzath Basha, convinced him to oppose any move of the Centre that goes against their interests.

Incidentally, in a recent government order, the state clarified that with respect to the updating of the NPR, the district collectors and district principal census officers should not insist on answers to any queries if people do not intend to answer and that people need not even submit documents during the NPR exercise, which is to be taken up for 45 days between April and September 2020.



Tactfully, the YSRC chief dovetailed his shift in stand on the NPR to the decision to hold local body polls in the state. It has come soon after the chief minister made public the state's preparedness to conduct elections to rural and urban local bodies by sticking to the 50 per cent reservation, as stipulated by the Supreme Court, in providing seats for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes.

This is in compliance with the directions of the Andhra Pradesh High Court that struck down a government order that provided for 59.85 per cent. So, without losing time the government informed the State Election Commission that it is ready to conduct the polls.

"The court issued directions to complete the elections by the end of this month. That apart local bodies elections are linked to getting the Fourteenth Finance Commission funds to the state. So, we want to complete it and get the funds," Jagan Mohan Reddy said explaining the state's compulsions.

But Ravi Komarraju, ex-professor of Political Science at Andhra University puts it like this: "Bihar's Nitish Kumar seems to have shown the way to many non-BJP governments and political parties. In the context of the upcoming local body elections, no party in power would be prepared to lose. Reddy's strength will be his success."

Other observers argue that the YSRC chief has not expressed regrets for supporting CAA in the first place and that he is quick to realize the widespread discontent in the state against CAA, National Register of Citizens and NPR. They assert that it smacks of political opportunism. But vote bank politics ahead of polls is not uncommon.

Reddy, who completes a year in office on May 30, has announced a slew of welfare measures to consolidate his electoral triumph. The YSRC bagged 151 of the 175 legislative assembly and 23 of the 25 Lok Sabha seats in the simultaneous poll held in 2019. Reddy, eager to establish his party's dominance in Andhra Pradesh, is looking to strengthen an already formidable position.