Vibha Sharma

Tribune News Service

New Delhi, March 10

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday attended the party’s Central Election Committee meeting to decide party candidates for the forthcoming Rajya Sabha elections.

Jyotiraditya Scindia who quit the Congress today, thereby paving way for “others disgruntled with Congress party”, is expected to join the saffron party on March 12 at Bhopal.

Meanwhile, the increasing number of those jumping the ship in Madhya Pradesh is also expected to affect Congress’ Rajya Sabha calculations in the state where three seats are on offer.

As many as 22 MLAs have tendered their resignations in the state, giving rise to speculations about BJP’s plans for Jyotiraditya who, sources claim, may join the saffron party in Bhopal.

The saffron party is trying to get more MLAs to resign, they add.

Earlier, the top BJP leadership — Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh — and other members participated in a meeting of the Central Election Committee where the candidates of the forthcoming Rajya Sabha elections were decided.

For now, as per the reports, Jyotiraditya is expected to be accommodated in the central council of ministers via the Rajya Sabha.

Scinidia, who has “well entrenched” Sangh roots given that his late father Madhavrao Scindia was a part of erstwhile Jana Sangh, will be given a “suitable” welcome given his past and status, say BJP leaders.

His grandmother, Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia, was among founding members while his two aunts Vasundhara Raje and Yashodhara Raje are counted among top leaders of the saffron party.

It remains to be seen how the BJP deals with barbs of “dynastic” politics it often throws at Congress party.

“In BJP everyone is treated equally. He will also have to deliver but unlike Congress he will get respect and patient hearing,” say BJP leaders.

Former Union Minister and four-time parliamentarian Jyotiraditya resigned from the Congress this morning, shortly after meeting Prime Minister Modi and Home Minister Shah.

Though what the BJP successfully executed in Madhya Pradesh can be called a classic poaching plan, some observers are sensing a certain amount of discontent in existing cadres and leaders in the state.

Poaching is never a happy proposition, they say quoting the example of Karnataka which the BJP recently wrested from Congress- JD(S).

BJP leaders say, “The BJP has no role in it. It is purely the problem of the Congress which could not decide upon the rift over one Rajya Sabha seat and state leadership.”

For now the Holi ended a happy day for the BJP as it came closer to annex Madhya Pradesh which it lost to Congress in 2018.

Senior MP leaders, including former CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Union Minister Narendra Singh, worked hard to get Jyotiraditya into the camp.

Aunt Yashodhara Raje today welcomed nephew Jyotiraditya Scindia in the saffron ambit, calling it “ghar wapsi” (homecoming) for him.

According to Raje, her mother Vijaya Raje Scindia, BJP’s doyen, always wanted her son, late Madhavrao Scindia, to be with the saffron party.

“His son (Jyotiraditya) has joined the BJP on his father’s birth anniversary today, what better day it can be," she said on the day of fast moving developments in Madhya Pradesh.

Jyotiraditya's aunt and Madhavrao’s sister Yashodhara Raje also played a key role in his decision to delink with the Congress.

Chouhan, meanwhile, is believed to have the blessings of the Sangh and party chief JP Nadda and Home Minister Shah, sources say.