Numbers Game

Poll Calculations



A Different Kind of Election

With 37 Rajya Sabha vacancies filled up unopposed and a tough fight expected for the remaining 18 seats, here is a look at how parties do the math to score a win Rajya Sabha elections are usually a planned affair that rarely goes off the script, except for when they actually do. Like it happened three years ago when Congress ’ Ahmed Patel narrowly beat the BJP candidate in Gujarat after a lot of intrigue, crossvoting and disqualification of MLAs.Yet, the element of surprise remains minimal in Rajya Sabha polls, says Sanjay Kumar, director at Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), a think tank. Perhaps he is right. After 55 new vacancies came up in the Upper House of Parliament, 37 members got elected to the Rajya Sabha unopposed in polls held on March 18. Those elected had no opponents. Some of the key names include NCP chief Sharad Pawar , Union minister Ramdas Athawale and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh.The Opposition in some states did not field any candidate in view of its low number of legislators. In Odisha, four independents stood against the BJD nominee, but their candidature was rejected due to lack of minimum number of proposers. The rulebook says 10 MLAs need to propose the name of a candidate. But the outcome may not be as predictable for the remaining 18 vacant seats, elections for which are due this Thursday (March 26).Regular vacancies make up nearly one-third of Rajya Sabha seats (usually 80 of the 238 seats) elections for which are held every two years in contrast to casual vacancies that arise when a member resigns, is disqualified or dies. “But the one-third number has been changing over the years due to mergers and creation of new states,” says a senior Rajya Sabha official on the condition of anonymity. How is this contest going to shape up, since multiple parties will field candidates and an MLA will grade and indirectly elect more than one candidate, including those from the Opposition? And how different is the Rajya Sabha election process from the simple firstpast-the-post system of the Lok Sabha elections?Haven’t we all read this definition: “Members of Rajya Sabha are elected by members of legislative assemblies through proportional representation by means of single transferable vote”, without actually understanding what it means? And how is the quota — or minimum valid votes required to win a seat — calculated? To understand this, let’s go back to Gujarat. March 26 will see contests for four Rajya Sabha seats in the BJP-ruled state. The BJP, with 103 MLAs, earlier fielded two candidates (Abhay Bharadwaj and Ramila Bara).It later fielded a third candidate — Narhari Amin, a Congress turncoat. On the other hand, the Congress, which had 73 MLAs along with independent Jignesh Mewani, was sure of winning two of the four Upper House seats. But with the resignation of five MLAs, the party’s numbers have dwindled to 68 — four short of the required number of 72 to win two seats. This has also reduced the strength of the Gujarat assembly — from 182 to 177. Each party now needs 36 first preferential votes to win a seat and 72 to win two seats.The BJP with 103 MLAs needs 108 votes (36 multiplied by 3) to win three seats. Now, cross-voting and preferential votes may tilt the balance in favour of the BJP. That is why the party fielded a third candidate. “We are sure of winning all three seats,” a senior BJP functionary told ET Magazine. Following the resignations, the Congress has moved 24 Gujarat MLAs to Jaipur to ward of any chances of horsetrading. It is clear Gujarat will continue to see a close contest, like it did in 2017.Here is how the vote quota is calculated in a Rajya Sabha election. In a state with more than one seat, the quota is calculated by first multiplying the number of MLAs with 100 (since each MLA’s vote is deemed to have a value of 100). Through this formula, the total value of votes in Gujarat reaches 17,700 (177 x 100). This number is then divided by the number of vacancies plus one, or 4+1 = 5 (see Quota Formula below). This gives us 3,540. One is added to the quotient to reach the quota, making it 3,541.Since each MLA has a value of 100, each candidate needs the support of more than 35 MLAs (3,541 divided by 100 and rounding off ) to win a seat. This system of proportional representation through single transferable vote is used in an election where one voter has to vote for more than one candidate. In Gujarat, one MLA will indirectly vote for four candidates. How?While filling the ballot paper that has names of all candidates across parties in fray, the MLA has to mark her order of preference against each candidate’s name — 1 is top preference (called first preferential vote), 2 is next and so on. If the total first preferential votes is equal or more than the quota, that candidate stands elected.If the winning candidate has excess votes, these are transferred to their second choice (marked number 2). If more than one candidate has surplus, the largest surplus is transferred first. To further avoid wastage of votes, if the requisite number of candidates still do not get elected, the candidate lowest on the poll is excluded and his unexhausted papers are distributed among the continuing candidates. “Exhausted paper” means a ballot paper on which no further preference is recorded for a continuing candidate. In these elections, surplus vote transfers and eliminations (if applicable) go on until enough candidates reach the quota to fill all the seats.Let’s take another example. A state with 100 MLAs has three RS vacancies and two parties — P1 party with 60 MLAs and P2 party with 40 MLAs. P1 fields three candidates: A, B and C and P2 fields D, E and F. In this case, the quota will come to 2,501, which means the support of more than 25 MLAs for each candidate (formula: 100x100/(3+1) + 1). During casting votes using ballot papers, 60 MLAs of P1 party chose candidate A as the first preferential vote, B as second preferential vote and C as third preferential vote. Similarly, 40 MLAs of P2 party may mark candidate D as first vote, E as second vote and F as third vote. After one round of polling, say candidate A is selected, then her 34 surplus votes are transferred to candidate B. In the same round, candidate D is also selected and her 14 surplus votes are transferred to candidate E. Thus, candidates A and D are elected. But since there are three vacancies, more rounds will be held.In the second round, B is selected automatically (as she received 34 surplus votes from A), E is 12 short of quota and C & F have no votes. Hence A, B and D are selected by proportional representation through single transferable vote. If MLAs from P1 party mark candidates of P2 party as number 4, 5 or 6, then candidates from one party may be elected on transfers of votes from opposition parties. This happens in polls with multiple vacancies that require multiple rounds of surplus vote transfer. Hence, parties strategically ask their MLAs to give not more than one choice so that their votes do not give an advantage to another party. In the March 18 elections, on all 37 seats where the candidates won unopposed, the Opposition in those states did not have quota for even a single candidate. Let’s take the example of Telangana, which had two Rajya Sabha vacancies. The ruling YSR Congress Party fielded two candidates. Given the party’s strength of 151 MLAs in the 175-member assembly, it won both the seats. The formula made the quota 5,834, or the support of around 59 MLAs. Since Opposition TDP had only 23 MLAs, there was no need of a contest.There are some peculiar rules related to Rajya Sabha polls. For example, only a violet sketch pen provided by the returning officer should be used to mark the ballot. In 2016, Congress-backed candidate RK Anand lost in the Haryana Rajya Sabha polls after 14 Congress votes were found invalid on account of using the wrong colour pen.Also, the polls are not actually held in the Rajya Sabha but in respective state assemblies. “We simply administer the oath of office,” says the RS official quoted earlier. Interestingly, the system of open ballot – where lawmakers are supposed to show their ballot to an authorised party agent before dropping it the box -- was introduced by the NDA government in 1998 to avoid corruption during secret ballot.Open ballot became a norm following a 2006 Supreme Court’s Kuldip Nayar versus Union of India judgement. By the same ruling, requirement of a “domicile” in the state concerned for getting elected to the council of states was deleted. Even as it is believed that candidate from one party can be elected on transfer of votes from other parties reducing the role of partisanship in the Rajya Sabha electoral process, in practice, each party devises a way to only help their candidates sail through. The system of proportional representation via single transferable vote system is also used for electing the President of India, the vice-president and members of state legislative councils. The system is also used is the city elections in the US, Ireland and Australia, some elections in Nepal, Pakistan and New Zealand.A debate continues as to whether proportional representation through single transferable vote is better than first-past-the-post. Advocates of proportional representation say it enables votes to be cast for individual candidates rather than for parties and compared to winner-takes-all first-past-the-post system, it reduces wastage of votes. In this system, the more the seats to be won, the wider the distribution of votes for each seat. For example, in a three-seat contest, a candidate needs roughly one-third of votes to win a seat.But in a seven-seat poll, any candidate who can get the support of around 14% of the votes (either first preferences or a combination of FPV and transferred lowerranked preferences) will win a seat. “No system is foolproof. Even in first-pastthe-post, people are elected with thin margin,” says Kumar of CSDS. “Think of the BSP in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls (it got 20% vote share in UP but did not win any seat). This means there is no voice in Parliament for several lakh of voters who chose the BSP. At the same time, proportional representation is suited for an electoral college which is learned and educated.”Come March 26, and the Rajya Sabha polls will turn into a slugfest for the 18 seats. Besides Gujarat, at stake at four seats in Andhra Pradesh, three in Rajasthan and MP, two in Jharkhand and one each in Manipur and Meghalaya. With extra players in the fray in each of these seats, the election math will keep changing till the last minute depending on the number of valid votes, cross-voting, surpluses, transfer of preferential votes and rejections.