The Battle for Bengal is officially on. On March 1, Union home minister Amit Shah sounded the clarion call at a big rally in central Kolkata, saying a sonar Bangla (golden Bengal) awaited the state if the Bharatiya Janata Party was elected to power in 2021. A day later, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee rolled out a massive public outreach programme, Banglar Gorbo Mamata’, while denouncing the communal violence in Delhi as a planned gen­ocide’ and saying the BJP was applying the Gujarat model across the country. The goli maro’ slogans heard at the rally in an eerie reprise of the incendiary slogan­eering by BJP leaders in Delhi and the anti-Shah pro­­tests across the city by the Left and the Congress left no doubt that communal faultlines in the state were deepening.

Bengal, of course, is crucial to the BJP’s larger game plan. The party has already made significant inroads in the state, winning 18 of 42 seats and 40 per cent of the vote share in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. It’s already nipping at the heels of Mamata’s TMC (Trinamool Congress) which had only four more seats in LS 2019 and the party fancies its chances of staging an upset victory in 2021.

The Union home minister was in Bengal in the company of BJP national president J.P. Nadda (who app­arently left his son’s wedding reception in Himachal midway to be there for the occ­asion) and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh. Shah began his day in the city with a rally near Shahid Minar, an iconic monument and protest site in the city’s Esplanade area. The irony of his defence of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, even while Delhi was still on tenterhooks in the aftermath of the communal clashes over the same law, was not lost on the politically savvy city. But amid talk of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and the repeal of Article 370 in Kashmir, Shah reiterated his now-familiar refrain that Indian Muslims had nothing to fear from the new law and that the ruling TMC was only trying to fan the fear for political advantage. Shah’s reassurances were by way of damage control, but whether or not people believed him is another matter, says Prasanto Ray, professor emeritus at Presidency University.

After the rally at Shahid Minar, Shah went to offer prayers at the Kalighat temple before heading to a city hotel where he met a host of leaders from the state among them, MPs and MLAs, the presidents of the 38 organisational districts, observers and general secretaries. At the over four-hour-long meeting, Shah mainly listened. The final meeting ended around midnight, after which Shah flew back to Delhi.

In his meetings, Shah reassured the state functionaries of central support. In the next 390 days, till the assembly election in 2021, he said he would visit the state thrice a month for the next few months, going up to a week in the months leading to the election. Forty-two days in the last six months means Shah will cover each of the 42 Lok Sabha seats besides having a strong team to fan out in every assembly constituency, says a BJP district leader, requesting anonymity. To show how serious he is about the campaign, Shah is also seeking a place to stay in Kolkata. He is also learning Bengali, and is now peppering his speeches with Bengali words. His visit to the Kali temple, too, was of a piece with the plan to woo Bengali Hindu voters and dispel the notion that the BJP is a party of the Hindi heartland, trying to foist itself on the state.

Shah’s visit was also meant to remove any suspicions in the minds of the local functionaries of a covert BJP deal with the TMC, which may have arisen following Mamata’s meetings, first with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then with Shah at a lunch organised by Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik at his residence. He told us BJP workers should not believe rumours of an understanding, just because there had been meetings with the PM and himself, said a leader who was part of Shah’s closed-door meeting with party functionaries.

Not to be outdone, Mamata went into a huddle with her partymen the day after Shah’s visit, to sharpen campaign strategies. So the TMC’s Banglar Gorbo Mamata’ (Bengal’s pride, Mamata) is said to be in response to the BJP’s Aar Noi Annyay (No More Injustice), a grievance cell’ to report corruption in the TMC regime. Somewhat on the lines of the BJP’s door-to-door campaign through vistaraks and shakha pracharaks, Mamata too has lined up a series of be humble and simple’ programmes to win back disenchanted voters. Likewise, the TMC’s Didi ke Bolo (Tell Didi), Jalojoge Jogajog (Connect over Snacks) and CAA, CAA/ Chhi, Chhi (Shame on CAA) pitches have provoked counter-campaigns in the form of Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh’s Dada ke Bolo (Tell Dada), Chai Pe Charcha (Conversations over Tea) and Abhinandan yatras.

The copycat strategies, says Ray, show the BJP is running out of ideas. Didi ke Bolo is a populist initiative to plug loopholes in governance, whereas BJP’s Aar Noi Annyay has a moral overtone. If morality mattered in politics, Saradha and Narada would have had an impact. So, I doubt if the moral platitudes will serve any end, he says.

The TMC is also way ahead in terms of having a credible mass leader. The BJP, on the other hand, does not even have a consensus candidate, perhaps another reason why Shah is keen on frequenting the state to figure out which way the local leadership is leaning. The TMC is also not above using the police and administrative machinery to its advantage. For now, Shah’s main strategy is blanket coverage criss-crossing Bengal, weekly rallies, dinners with Dalit karyakartas in their mud huts and visiting the families of political martyrs. Whether it will help him win Bengal, 2021 will tell.