Security officials inspect a blast site. (Source: ANI) Security officials inspect a blast site. (Source: ANI)

An independent banned outfit United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA) claimed responsibility for the four minor explosions which were reported in Upper Assam districts of Dibrugarh and Charaideo on Sunday morning, prior to Republic day celebrations, PTI reported.

The statement by ULFA(I) signed by Lt Joy Asom of its Publicity Department, claimed that all the four blasts were carried out by the outfit.

The police said that no casualties were reported and grenades and improvised explosive devices were used to trigger the blasts. All four blasts occurred in a span of 10 minutes – between 8.15 and 8.25 am, a police officer added.

Assam DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahant told news agency ANI: “We have received the information about the explosion in Dibrugarh. An investigation has begun, it is being probed that who is involved in this.”

In Dibrugarh, an explosion has been reported near a Gurudwara and another at a shop near NH 37 at Graham Bazaar. Police said an explosion was also reported from the oil town of Duliajan. And another explosion rocked Teok Ghat under Sonari police station of Charaideo district, they said.

CCTV footages available at Duliajan Tiniali showed two motorcycle-borne youths lobbed a grenade and sped away, the police said.

Taking to Twitter, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal condemned the blasts and vowed to take strong action

against the culprits.

“Strongly condemn the bomb blasts in a few places of Assam. This cowardly attempt to create terror on a sacred day only exhibits the frustration of the terror groups after their total rejection by the people. Our Govt will take the sternest action to bring the culprits to book,” he tweeted.

ADGP (Law and Order) GP Singh tweeted: “There have been four low intensity IED blasts in Upper Assam. There has been no casualties or damage to property. We would leave no stone unturned to neutralise the perpetrators. That’s our solemn assurance to people.”

Extremists organisations in the state have routinely boycotted Independence Day and Republic Day celebrations. Sunday’s blasts also come at a time when the state has been witnessing continuous protests against the CAA for over a month now.

📣 The Indian Express is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlines

For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App.

© IE Online Media Services Pvt Ltd