After parting ways with Steve Mills on Tuesday, the New York Knicks are set to hire CAA player agent Leon Rose as their new president of basketball operations, per ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski and Ramona Shelburne. While original reports indicated that William Wesley, another CAA consultant, commonly known around league circles as "World Wide Wes," would be joining Rose in the Knicks' front office, that partnership is no longer expected to happen, according to Sham Charania of The Athletic.

Rose is LeBron James' former agent, and currently represents some of the top players in the league -- Joel Embiid, Karl-Anthony Towns, Chris Paul, Devin Booker, Victor Oladipo, and Carmelo Anthony. He negotiated James' contract with the Miami Heat and served as the star forward's agent until 2012 when James signed with Rich Paul.

The two parties are expected to begin negotiations shortly after the end of the trade deadline on Thursday, according to the report. A formal deal is not expected to be announced right away.

While Rose was not specifically named in the release, Knicks owner James Dolan issued a statement concerning his plan to reshape New York's front office by finding the right leader who will "ensure the long-term success of the team."

Rose does not have experience in an NBA front office but would be in keeping with the current trend of player agents moving to that side of the operation, following in the footsteps of Bob Myers with the Golden State Warriors and Rob Pelinka with the Los Angeles Lakers.

The Knicks parted ways with Mills on Tuesday, just two days before the trade deadline. He had served as the president of basketball operations since 2017, with his tenure as executive vice president and general manager dating back to 2013. During that time, the Knicks have gone a combined 117-365 without a single playoff appearance.

After Mills took over as the president of basketball operations, the Knicks went through two head coaches in Jeff Hornacek and David Fizdale. Hornacek held the position from 2016 to 2018 while Fizdale spent a little over a full season as the team's coach. Fizdale was fired on Dec. 6, 2019 after the Knicks got off to a 4-18 start.

Since making the coaching change to Mike Miller in the interim, the Knicks haven't exactly fared much better. They've only won 11 more games since Fizdale was let go and the fanbase has let the team know that they're fed up.

In fact, during a game against the Memphis Grizzlies last week, fans began chanting "sell the team" to owner James Dolan, who was in attendance at Madison Square Garden for the contest. This comes after an offseason in which the Knicks failed to lure the likes of Kevin Durant or Kyrie Irving to the team and instead, signed a slew of veterans including Marcus Morris, Julius Randle, Bobby Portis, and Elfrid Payton.

New York currently sits 15-36, with the fourth-worst record in the NBA leading up to the trade deadline.