Guwahati: On the eve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ’s visit to Assam, Ulfa (Independent) chief Paresh Baruah said on Thursday that he was ready to hold peace talks with the Centre if the PM agreed to discuss his organisation’s demand for “sovereignty”.The state government, as announced earlier by finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, is expected to raise the Ulfa (I) issue with Modi on Friday in Kokrajhar where the PM will be attending a thanksgiving rally organised by the Bodos to commemorate the signing of the Bodo accord last month.Earthern lamps lining the streets and in front of homes have lit up Kokrajhar, about 220 km from Guwahati, to welcome Modi. The PM will arrive at Kokrajhar by noon on Friday. It will be his first visit to Assam after the anti-CAA protests exploded in the state. Modi tweeted, “Tomorrow, I look forward to being in Assam. I will be in Kokrajhar to address a public meeting. We will mark the successful signing of the Bodo Accord, which brings to an end a problem that had been persisting for decades. It marks the start of a new era of peace and progress.”The Assam government has declared a public holiday in the Bodo autonomous area on Friday to enable people to hear Modi. Northeast Frontier Railway is running four special trains from different locations to Kokrajhar ferrying participants.Baruah, 63, who is believed to be holed up in China now, told TOI, “If Modi is determined, all we need from him is a written assurance that only sovereignty will be discussed and we will come for talks. We will hold the discussions in Assam, and not on foreign soil. The PM should think about India’s and Assam’s good.”He added, “If India believes that it is practising true democracy, there should not be any difficulty in discussing sovereignty. Absolute peace is not possible anywhere in the world but discussion is a path to find a solution. I am not very hopeful though.... Only if there is a discussion can we tell why we are asking for sovereignty and what the basis of our demand is. The conflict has been on for too long and the Indian government has to take the first step forward to end this.”