BENGALURU: People in parts of Karnataka have declined to share personal information with officials visiting households in connection with government programmes, suspecting them to be gathering data for the national registry of citizens (NRC) following the enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), state officials said.This was the focal point of a discussion at a video-conference the revenue department had with district-level officials on Tuesday. Several officials said they have not been able to gather data they require for welfare schemes, in the wake of protests against the CAA and NRC.Although these instances are reported mostly from areas dominated with minorities and in coastal Karnataka, districts like Vijayapura and Mysuru too have witnessed such issues. Officials have had a foretaste of what could probably lie ahead when they commence work on updating the census data as well as National Population Registry ( NPR ) in mid-April.In Uttara Kannada’s Sirsi, angry residents tore off the registry of an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) who was on a pulse-polio visit. District health officials issued a media statement the next day, clarifying that the information collected by ASHA would not be used for any other purpose, and requested their cooperation.In Bhatkal, assistant commissioner Sajid Ahmed Mulla said the administration had held a meeting with the town’s prominent socio-political organisation, Tanzeem. “We have requested community members to give information when government staff visit houses for awareness drives and surveys. Announcements are made in religious institutions so as to avoid any confusion,” he said.Multiple cases were reported in Vijayapura district as sceptical residents refused to share information with health department staffers on a larvae survey, and with booth-level officers who visited homes for electoral roll verification. “We had made it mandatory for health workers on larvae survey to collect phone numbers of the households they visit with the purpose of randomly calling and verifying if they have actually paid visits to those houses. But it appears some residents assumed the exercise is related to NRC,” Vijayapura deputy commissioner YS Patil said.He said while this could also be due to a communication gap, the district administration was engaging with citizens to convince them not to mix up census and NPR with other government schemes.A few government officials ET spoke to admitted that there has been a sudden shift in the way members of aminority community treat surveyors and government officials in the last few weeks.“Earlier, people were welcoming and would voluntarily share information. But now they are hesitant; there is a sense of scepticism about the government’s data gathering process,” said an official who did not wish to be named.“It is quite obvious that we cannot carry out census like we used to do in the past. It cannot be done without first educating people,” another official said.