Days After Jamia Firing Incident, Another Man Opens Fire In Shaheen Bagh Area, Held By Police

Days After Jamia Firing Incident, Another Man Opens Fire In Shaheen Bagh Area, Held By Police

A man reportedly fired bullets in Shaheen Bagh area of the national capital. Police has taken him into their custody, news agency ANI reported. The development comes days after a juvenile had fired upon Jamia Millia Islamia students who were peacefully protesting against the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).

According to eyewitnesses, the man opened fire behind the stage at the site where the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act has been going on since over a month.

The man was overpowered by locals and handed over to the police.

In a video that has been doing rounds on social media, a man is seen opening fire at protesters and luckily no one was injured.

Delhi: The man, who had fired bullets in Shaheen Bagh area, has been taken by police into their custody. More details awaited. https://t.co/MmCwK1l58m pic.twitter.com/cDmaDrIXa6 — ANI (@ANI) February 1, 2020

#WATCH Delhi: Man who had fired bullets in Shaheen Bagh area being taken away from the spot by police. pic.twitter.com/lenDhRcWGD — ANI (@ANI) February 1, 2020

Don't Miss 238 SHARES 535 SHARES 648 SHARES 4.3 K SHARES

#WATCH Delhi: Man who fired bullets in Shaheen Bagh has been taken away from the spot by police. The man claims to be Kapil Gujjar, a resident of Dallupura village (near Noida border). pic.twitter.com/6xHxREQOe1 — ANI (@ANI) February 1, 2020

Shaheen Bagh has been the epicentre of the CAA protests for almost two months now.

Meanwhile, the boy, who opened fire in Jamia area on Thursday injuring one student, was sent to 14-day protective custody by the Juvenile Justice Board in Delhi.

Delhi Police's Crime Branch produced the accused before the Juvenile Justice Board.

The Crime Branch has also contacted RML hospital for conducting necessary medical tests to confirm the age of the accused. A medical board is likely to be formed for a bone ossification test of the accused.

The accused, on Friday, said he has no remorse for what he did and was radicalised by viewing videos on social media, claimed Delhi Police.

Police sources also said that the accused had procured the country-made pistol from his village and left for Delhi in a bus to take revenge for the death of Chandan Gupta. Gupta was killed in Kasganj violence on January 26.

The accused had brandished a gun despite heavy police force deployment and fired at the marching students on Thursday.

Delhi police sources said that the accused has denied having any connection or links with any organisation.

A case under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 25/27 of Arms Act has been registered at New Friends Colony Police Station.