PORT ST. LUCIE — Tim Tebow’s passion for baseball remains high enough that he’s willing to weather at least another spring training and presumably minor league season for a shot at the big leagues.

But the former Heisman Trophy winner also dropped a hint Sunday that he might be nearing his threshold on waiting for his dream to be realized.

“Season by season, day by day,” Tebow said, when asked about his long-range plan. “Doing something that I love and thankful to have the opportunity to do it, pursuing it as hard as I can, working as hard as I can. I think that is a big part of it.

“At the same time there’s a lot of other things I love pursuing so it’s not something you want to do forever, but it’s something that while I have the chance, it’s definitely something I am passionate about and I love.”

Tebow, 32, spent last season at Triple-A Syracuse and never got rolling, before a hand laceration ended his season in August. In 77 games he posted a .163/.240/.255 slash line with four homers and 19 RBIs.

It marked the second straight year that an injury prevented Tebow from completing a season — in 2018 he was shut down in late July at Double-A Binghamton after breaking the hamate bone in his right hand.

Tebow remains busy as an ESPN college football analyst and with foundation work around the world. He recently married Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, a former Miss Universe from South Africa.

Tebow, a former CAA client of general manager Brodie Van Wagenen’s, is entering his fourth spring training with the Mets. Tebow was an All-Star in the Eastern League in 2018.

“There’s been a lot of ups and downs,” Tebow said. “When you think about a goal, you don’t really think about all the lows and there definitely has been some lows and some sucky times, but there’s also been some awesome times and I think it’s a good picture of life, too — there’s a lot of ups and downs and it’s kind of balancing them and handling them.”

Football remains a passion for the former Jets quarterback, who says “there was some communication” between himself and the newly formed XFL. But Tebow ultimately decided to stick with baseball.

He was asked Sunday for an assessment on Giants quarterback Daniel Jones.

“I think he’s got a lot of talent,” Tebow said. “He was coached really well in college and I think he will continue to improve. To continue to get him more weapons and confidence is pretty critical.”

Likewise, Tebow called the Jets’ Sam Darnold “one of the most talented young quarterbacks in the league.”