Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced new slabs and reduced the tax rate for different slabs for an individual income of up to Rs 15 lakh per annum, if a taxpayer opts for foregoing exemptions and deductions.

The new tax regime will be optional and the taxpayers will be given the choice to either remain in the old regime with exemptions and deductions or opt for the new reduced tax rate without those exemptions, she said in the Lok Sabha while unveiling the Budget 2020-21. Read more

Days After Jamia Firing Incident, Another Man Opens Fire In Shaheen Bagh Area, Held By Police

A man reportedly fired bullets in Shaheen Bagh area of the national capital. Police has taken him into their custody, news agency ANI reported.

The development comes days after a juvenile had fired upon Jamia Millia Islamia students who were peacefully protesting against the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Read more

Don't Miss 238 SHARES 535 SHARES 648 SHARES 3.3 K SHARES

After 50 Days Of Protests, Govt Finally Agrees To Talk To Anti-CAA Protesters In Shaheen Bagh

The ongoing protests at Delhi's Shaheen Bagh against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) are unprecedented in several levels. It is probably the longest-running mass protest against the Central government in recent years. It is also probably for the first time in the country, Muslim women have led such an agitation.

It has become so massive, that the women protesters in Shaheen Bagh have inspired similar women-led protests in several parts of the country. Read more

Another Nirbhaya Rapist Akshay Thakur Files Mercy Plea As Delaying Tactics Continue

Akshay Thakur has become the third convict in the 2012 Delhi gang rape and murder case to file mercy plea before the President of India.

Akshay filed a mercy petition to President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday, minutes after Home Ministry officials confirmed that President Kovind has rejected the clemency plea by Vinay Sharma, another convict in the Delhi gang rape case. Read more

Air India Flight With 324 Indians From Wuhan Lands In Delhi, Evacuees To Be Quarantined For 14 Days

The special Air India flight with 324 Indians who were evacuated from the coronavirus-hit Chinese city of Wuhan has landed in the national capital on Saturday morning.

The Boeing 747 Jumbo aircraft had taken off from Wuhan's Tianhe International Airport in the early hours of Saturday and landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi at 7:26 am. Read more

China Coronavirus Toll Rises To 259 As Over 12,000 New Infection Cases Reported So Far

Since the news of the outbreak of coronavirus came to the fore, China has been on a virtual lockdown.

The number of deaths from a coronavirus epidemic in China has risen to 259, the country's health authority said. Read more