Dr. Kafeel Khan, the former pediatrician at the BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh who was arrested by the UP Special Task Force from Mumbai on January 29 was scheduled to be released from jail.

But in the last minute development, the stringent National Security Act (NSA) was slapped on Khan, meaning that his detention in Mathura jail, just got extended.

BCCL

The NSA allows preventive detention for several months if the authorities believe the person is a threat to national security or law and order.



Dr. Khan was arrested from Mumbai by the UP in connection with his anti-CAA speech at the Aligarh Muslim University for allegedly promoting enmity between different religions through the speech he had delivered on December 12.

"NSA has been slapped on Dr. Kafeel. He will remain in jail," Aligarh Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Akash Kulhari to PTI.

Don't Miss 110.6 K SHARES 35.4 K SHARES 14.8 K SHARES 14.8 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES

BCCL

Kafeel Khan is currently lodged in Mathura jail despite bail granted to him by a court in the case, registered against him at the Civil Lines police station in Aligarh. After his arrest in Mumbai, Kafeel Khan was brought to Aligarh, from where he was immediately shifted to the district jail in neighbouring Mathura.



According to the police, this was done as a precautionary measure in view of the anti-CAA protests on the AMU campus and at the Eidgah grounds in the old city. Police had said that Kafeel Khan's presence in the Aligarh jail could have worsened the law and order situation in the city.

"The (Mathura) jail was about to release him on Friday at 6 am. My brother Kashif along with the lawyer reached the jail but by 9 am police presence at the jail was increased and we were told verbally by jail authorities that the NSA has been invoked on him," his brother Adil Khan said.

Adil also alleged that he was booked under NSA as the government wanted him to "remain quiet". "The government is trying to silence my brother. A few days ago, during a programme on a TV news channel, he had revealed that at BRD Medical College (Gorakhpur), many children are dying daily but the government is hiding the facts and data."

AFP

Dr. Khan first shot into fame during the death of over 60 children in one week at the BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur in August 2017, allegedly due to a short supply of oxygen at the children's ward. Khan was hailed a hero after he arranged oxygen cylinders and saved many lives. However, the Yogi Adityanath government suspended Kjna accusing him of negligence and corruption.



AFP

About two years later, a state government probe cleared Kafeel Khan of all major charges, prompting him to seek an apology from the Yogi government.