NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Tuesday informed the Lok Sabha that there have been 66 protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in the national Capital, which led the Delhi Police to register a total 11 cases in which 99 persons were arrested.Replying to a question in the Lok Sabha, minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said around 115 vehicles including 4 buses, 6 cars, 80 motorcycles, 2 police vehicles and 23 other vehicles, as well as 32 barricades, one police booth and one divider railing was damaged during the violent anti-CAA protests in Delhi. Incidents of violence, unlawful gathering, stone pelting and damage to public/personal property marked the protests reported from Jamia University, Sunder Nagar Chand Bagh mazaar, Seelampur, Old Seemapuri and Shaheen Bagh.Meanwhile, the Central government has received anti-CAA resolutions adopted by legislative assemblies of states such as Rajasthan . Kerala government has also filed an original suit in the Supreme Court under Article 131 of the Constitution of India, Reddy informed the MPs.Also sharing details of the police action on Jamia Millia Islamia campus in December and the January 5 violent clashes in JNU, as reported by the Delhi Police, Reddy said three cases were registered against the mob found to be involved in unlawful activities and defacing public property while protesting against CAA in vicinty of Jamia university. The police said it had entered the campus chasing the violent congregation of students/mob, to nab/ disperse the offenders, control the situation, protect government property as well as save the lives of “innocent” students residing on the campus.A total 15 persons were arrested by Delhi Police for Jamia violence. 62 police personnel and 127 persons, including 36 students, were injured.On the JNU clashes last month, Reddy said in reply to a question that a case was registered at Vasant Kunj North police station with regard to the attack against the students and teachers of JNU by masked people armed with rods and sticks. 51 persons sustained injuries and all were medically examined. No one was killed in this incident. Some private cars and property were also damaged. Some of the rioters involved have been identified, said the MoS.Reddy added that several safety measures had been taken post the clashes on JNU campus. These include deployment of police personnel both inside and outside the campus, liaison with students and university administration to maintain peace, deployment of police personnel in plain clothes around the campus, stationing of PCR van in the vicinity of the campus and briefing of students and administration to report to police immediately any violent/ unwanted activities that come to notice on the premises. Besides, as informed by JNU, 277 private security personnel have been deployed 24x7 on the campus.“As reported by Delhi Police, no case has been registered against the injured students at JNU. Details of investigation cannot be divulged at this stage,” Reddy told the Lok Sabha.