Parliament Today LIVE News Updates: In Rajya Sabha, Bhupender Yadav will move the Motion of Thanks to President’s address on January 31. Parliament Today LIVE News Updates: In Rajya Sabha, Bhupender Yadav will move the Motion of Thanks to President’s address on January 31.

Parliament Today highlights: Minutes after Lok Sabha was resumed at 12 pm, the Congress staged a walkout from the House over the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). BJP MP Anant Kumar Hegde’s earlier statement against Mahatma Gandhi also triggered angry reactions from the Opposition. On Monday, Hegde had claimed that the independence movement led by Mahatma Gandhi was a “drama”. Raising slogans against the government, they displayed placards that read “BJP Party, Godse Party”.

Meanwhile, Union Minister Nityanand Rai Tuesday told Lok Sabha that the government has not taken any decision on implementing NRC at the national lever till now.

On the other hand, Rajya Sabha is also witnessing an uproar over recent incidents of firing in Delhi with the Oppositionraising ‘Goli chalana band karo’ slogan in the House. On Monday, while Rajya Sabha proceedings were washed out after several adjournments, Lok Sabha saw Opposition MPs protest in the Well against the new law.

Today, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri is scheduled to introduce the Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in Lok Sabha Tuesday. Also, the Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s speech, which was moved by BJP MP Parvesh Verma Monday, will be further considered. Several leaders including Home Minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Arjun Ram Meghwal and Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury are scheduled to speak in the House today.

In Rajya Sabha, Bhupender Yadav will move the Motion of Thanks to President’s address on January 31 and Sudhanshu Trivedi will second the motion. “That the Members of the Rajya Sabha assembled in this Session are deeply grateful to the President for the Address which he has been pleased to deliver to both Houses of Parliament assembled together on January 31, 2020.”