Apple is nearing a series order for Physical, a dramedy headlined by Rose Byrne in her first regular role on an ongoing series since her breakout starring turn on FX’s Damages. The project hails from Almost Family creator Annie Weisman, Dirty John showrunner Alexandra Cunningham and Tomorrow Studios.

Written by Weisman, who also will serve as showrunner, Physical is set in a 1980s Southern California beach community. It follows a woman (Byrne) struggling in her life as a quietly tortured housewife who finds an unconventional path to power through an unlikely source: the world of aerobics.

Courtesy of WME

Cunningham, who worked with Weisman on ABC’s Desperate Housewives, will executive produce alongside Marty Adelstein and Becky Clements of Tomorrow Studios, a partnership between Adelstein and ITV Studios.

Related Story Carmi Zlotnik Inks Exclusive Producer Deal With Apple

The project stems from an exclusive development deal Tomorrow Studios inked in 2015 with Fabrication, a TV production company founded by Cunningham, Sera Gamble and John McNamara., following the quintet’s collaboration as executive producers on NBC series Aquarius. In addition to Cunningham, who will render services on Physical, Gamble and McNamara also will be credited as executive producers on the series.

Tomorrow Studios will produce. The company, which just received a series order from Netflix for One Piece, has six series on the air including Last Man Standing on Fox, Snowpiercer on TNT, Hanna on Amazon and the upcoming Cowboy Bebop and One Piece on Netflix and Physical on Apple.

Byrne will next be seen in Jon Stewart’s political comedy Irresistable, and as Gloria Steinem in FX’s limited series Mrs. America that will air on Hulu as part of the network’s new digital hub in the spring. She can currently be seen starring alongside Tiffany Haddish in Paramount’s buddy comedy Like a Boss. Byrne is repped by CAA and RGM Artists.

Weisman began her career as a writer-producer on seasons 7 and 8 of ABC’s Desperate Housewives. She recently served as a co-executive producer-writer on Hulu’s The Path. Weisman is the creator/executive producer of Fox’s freshman drama series Almost Family.