Several people and organisations are participating in the Bandh today | Photo Credit: ANI

Key Highlights Protesters, including Muslim women, reached Jantar Mantar in large numbers

In Maharashtra, angry protesters forced a train to halt

New Delhi: Many organisations have called for a Bharat Bandh against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) on Wednesday. The Bharat Bandh has been announced by Bahujan Kranti Morcha, which is also supported by many Dalit organisations. As a confirmation on the same, o n Tuesday too, #Kal_Bharat_Band_Rhega was trending on Twitter.

The organisations have been urging the public to participate in it as much as possible. They have also received support from the women protesting at Shaheen Bagh.

Bharat Bandh today: Latest Updates

A shopkeeper in Yavatmal area of Maharashtra, in order to stop agitators protesting against the CAA, NRC and NPR used Red Chilli powder. She did so in anger because her shop had been shut due to the protests.

#WATCH A shopkeeper in Yavatmal uses Red Chilli powder to stop the agitators protesting against CAA, NRC and NPR from shutting her shop today during Bharat Bandh called by multiple organisations. #Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/32aE3JaReU — ANI (@ANI) January 29, 2020

A clash broke out between two groups - one protesting against CAA & National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the other supporting it, in Sitamarhi area of Bihar. 15 people are said to have been injured in the clash. Police personnel have now been deployed in the area.

#WATCH Bihar: A clash broke out between two groups - one protesting against #CitizenshipAmendmentAct & National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the other supporting it, in Sitamarhi today. 15 people were injured in the clash. Police personnel have now been deployed in the area. pic.twitter.com/WDvib4BcAR — ANI (@ANI) January 29, 2020

According to Pune Police, over 250 protesters have been detained in Pune city till now. The detention has happened in connection with their protest against #CitizenshipAmendmentAct and NRC which was organised in support of the 'Bharat Bandh'.

Pune Police: Over 250 protesters have been detained in Pune city till now, over their protest against #CitizenshipAmendmentAct and NRC, in support of the 'Bharat Bandh' called by multiple organisations today, against CAA and NRC. #Maharashtra — ANI (@ANI) January 29, 2020

In order to show displeasure for the Citizenship Amendment Act, markets near pallet mosque have been closed in Baraut, Baghpat. Additionally, Police have also detained three youth. Several shops in the area have been closed and the police is consistently patrolling the area.

In Meerut, a mixed response could be seen in connection with the Bandh. Shops have been closed by a section of the city at Bhagat Singh Market in Hapur Adda. However, closure in other places of the city seems ineffective.

A large number of protesters, including Muslim women, reached Jantar-Mantar on Wednesday. While addressing the public at Jantar Mantar, activist Tapan Bose said that Pakistan is not an enemy country, the ruling class of India and Pakistan are same. He also said that the Indian Army is the same as the Pakistani Army because their army kills their people and our army kills our people, there is no difference between them.

#WATCH Activist Tapan Bose at Jantar Mantar during anti-CAA/NRC protest: Pakistan is not an enemy country, ruling class of India & Pakistan are alike. Our armies are alike too, their army kills their people and our army kills our people, there is no difference between them. pic.twitter.com/DaVHms7dWZ — ANI (@ANI) January 29, 2020

The impact of Bharat Bandh can now be seen in Varanasi of Uttar Pradesh. A shutdown against CAA, NRC in Varanasi's new road, Dalmandi, textile market area has been called for.

Anti-CAA protesters, on Wednesday morning, forced a train to halt at Kanjurmarg. Sources have suggested that the trains on the central route are running late today due to the ongoing protests. However, the fast line traffic is said to be normal right now.

In the wake of the Bandh, t he Muslim women, who have, for the last 40 days, been protesting against CAA and NRC in Shaheen Bagh will today, march at Jantar Mantar in Delhi. During the march, some of the Shaheen Bagh's women will address the protesters. ​