'Was Nehru communal?'

'Now you will call Shastri communal'

Remembering the wise thoughts of Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji and Dr. Lohia. https://t.co/7a1T4FZMFU — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1581006635000

'I urge

to not ignore Lohia'

'Don't think Congress was communal in 1947 and has turned secular suddenly'

'A Muslim is only a Muslim for the Congress'

'Is it okay to misinform the nation?'

PM Narendra Modi on Thursday unleashed a full-blown attack on the opposition over the issue of Citizenship Amendment Act, accusing it of spreading fear and misinforming people on the legislation that allows non-Muslim immigrants from India's three neighbours - Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan - to become citizens of India.Replying to the debate in Parliament on a motion thanking President for his address to the joint sitting of both houses, PM Modi quoted statements made by Nehru, Ram Manohar Lohia and Lal Bahadur Shastri on supporting minorities facing persecution in Pakistan.The PM also mentioned the November 25, 1947 resolution of the Congress Working Committee to say that they wanted minorities persecuted in Pakistan to be given citizenship.Here are the top quotes made by PM Modi in his speech:"Pandit Nehru himself was in favour of protecting minorities in Pakistan, I want to ask Congress, was Pandit Nehru communal? Did he want a Hindu Rashtra? Nehru was a big thinker. Why did he not include all citizens but mentioned only religious minorities in the Nehru-Liaquat Agreement? The first prime minister of India ( Jawaharlal Nehru ) wrote to the first chief minister of Assam (Gopinath Bordoloi), saying there was a need to differentiate between Hindu refugees and Muslim migrants. Nehru was of the view that even laws can be changed in this regard. Nehru had wanted to defend minorities in then West Pakistan and East Pakistan (now Bangladesh)."Quoting Lal Bahadur Shastri's words on a resolution in Parliament on April 3, 1964 , PM Modi said:"The House is of the opinion that in view of the insecurity of the life, property and honour of the minority communities living in the Eastern wing of Pakistan and general denial of all human rights to them in part of Pakistan, the Government of India should in addition to relaxing restrictions in migration of people belonging to minority communities from East Pakistan to Indian union also consider steps for enlisting the world opinion."He then went on to take a dig at the opposition and said " you may think these words are of a Jan Sangh leader of that time. But let me inform this distinguished House that these words are of Lal Bahadur Shastri. Now you will also call Shastri communal, you would also call him a divider of Hindus and Muslims.""I refuse the fact that we should not care about the Hindus of Pakistan since they are Pakistani citizens. Irrespective of citizenship of Pakistan's Hindus, it is our duty to protect them like we protect Indian Muslims and Hindus. It is not said by a BJP or a Jan Sangh leader but Ram Manohar Lohia said this. I urge Samajwadis to not ignore Lohia.""On 25 Nov 1947, the Congress Working Committee had passed a resolution. It says: Congress is further bound to afford full protection to all those non-Muslims from Pakistan who have crossed the border and come to India or may do so to save their life and honour. I don't think Congress was communal in 1947 and has turned secular suddenly. You could have written all communities coming from Pakistan. Why did you use the term 'Non-Muslims'? Will Congress also label Shastri as "communal"""We are being reminded that the slogan of 'Quit India', 'Jai Hind' was given by Muslims. Problem is that in the eyes of Congress these people are only a Muslim even after so many years. For us, they are Indians. Be it Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, Abdul Hamid or Abdul Kalam Azad , these all are Indians for us.""They (opposition) have used full power to instil an imaginary fear in the minds of people against CAA. Pakistan also speaks the same language. Pakistan played every game to mislead Indian Muslims. But that country's attempts have failed...A Muslim is only a Muslim for the Congress, but we see them as Indians.""Is it okay to misguide and misinform the nation? Can anybody be a part of a campaign that does the same? The path being taken on CAA by many opposition parties is unfortunate.""All the colleagues should ask themselves questions about whatever is being said about the CAA. We should stop the tendency to misinform and misguide the country ... Opposition members are very enthused these days, those who were silent have become violent," he said.