Bengaluru | New Delhi: On the evening of December 15, as protests around the Citizenship Amendment Act and police action were unfolding in New Delhi’s Jamia Millia Islamia, a student, Shreya (name changed), fired up her Instagram app and started posting.“It is very easy on Instagram, given that it allows you to upload abstracts, she told ET over the phone. “For instance, my friend was posting articles — taking parts of it, highlighting it and putting it up on Stories (a popular Instagram feature that lets users post ephemeral content — text, photos and videos).”This was just one of the hundreds of examples of how Instagram became the social media forum of choice in the charged CAA debate. Instagram’s prominence in this round of India’s digital protests is important for two reasons. First, most users are presumed to be under the age of 25, and the young have led protests. Second, BJP ’s IT Cell is not as active on the platform, despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi ’s individual popularity with 33.2 million followers on the platform as of last count.“We have very little presence on platforms such as Instagram and TikTok that are popular among the youth today. These issues were brought up at a recent meeting of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and BJP members who work on social media campaigns, in the last week of December,” a BJP member told ET on condition of anonymity.BJP’s IT cell remains hyperactive on closed-loop platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook groups and pages, and people familiar with the content on such groups say BJP’s content ecosystem has managed to retain dominance. But when protests are largely decentralised, platforms like Instagram become important.There’s also perhaps a shift in the digital battle on Twitter , some observers say.Twitter, an open platform, is often used to project a show of strength by various groups to “influencers” and set the agenda — either through hashtag trending wars or “Twitter polls”.Some coders claim deletion of bot accounts, as many as two to three lakhs, may have affected the rightwing digital dominance. ET could not independently verify this. BJP, like all political parties, deny the use of bots by its official IT teams.Over the last three-four months, more than a few Twitter polls on hot-button political issues have gone against rightwing positions, something that has rarely happened in the past, social media experts, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said.“A lot of the swaying is because of the deleted bots. They aren’t able to mobilise their organic base to win these polls as they once used to,” said a coder, before adding, “The humans are winning over bots on Twitter.” He spoke on the condition of anonymity.BJP’s IT cell adopted a different strategy. The BJP leader quoted earlier in the story said, “There was a point when we realised that it was going out of control. We formed a different strategy, and reached out to likeminded support groups with an internet presence and sought their help too.”The decentralised nature of these protests meant a torrent of content that several users said counters the organised nature of a party IT Cell and its vast official and unofficial content ecosystem. And protest content is in multiple forms. With many students hitting the streets, there’s a strong millennial focus in the tone of the content being created.Srinivas Kodali, a Hyderabad-based internet researcher and digital rights activist, said: “A diverse set of people are creating content today. Creative people are up in arms. There are protest songs, protest poetry, rap videos, and posters. One of the big changes is that there are graphic designers in each WhatsApp group coordinating the protests,” he said. He added that a lot of people have volunteered to get the facts and the details translated in languages and formats that are easier to share.And real-time fact-checking is now becoming a significant trend. “It’s vigorous and live on protest groups, especially on WhatsApp, Signal and Telegram. Whenever someone posts something, the immediate response is to seek the source of the information — who said it, where, and when, the typical questions that are asked,” according to Kodali.BJP has no official presence on the Byte-Dance-owned short video app TikTok, a platform that’s almost as popular for protesters as Instagram. There are cumulative views of around 250-300 million for several videos hashtagged with NRC, CAA, NPR and related issues. In contrast, political parties like the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which have a considerable presence on the platform, have been at the forefront of these protests, especially in their strongholds of Hyderabad and Aurangabad.Shreya and students and young protesters like her think the rightwing’s IT teams are taking the easy way out. TikTok videos or eyecatching Instagram content can take time to make, three hours or more, sometimes a day, they said. It’s easier to post content from Facebook and WhatsApp. Some observers expect the rightwing to catch up – and soon.Clearly, the digital battle is not over.