Bike-borne persons reportedly fired shots in the air, next to the anti-CAA protest site outside Jamia Millia Islamia, on February 2 night.

Congress president Sonia Gandhi was admitted to a private hospital following complaint of stomach pain on February 2 evening.

The government is yet to take a call on the quantum of its stake to be offloaded from the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), whose stock market listing was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Budget.

The government has ordered an inquiry into a study conducted in Nagaland by researchers from the U.S., China and India on bats and humans carrying antibodies to deadly viruses like Ebola, officials said.

Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said Pakistan and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal had felt pain when the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was withdrawn.

Days after Kalakshetra Foundation withdrew permission to use its auditorium to release Magsaysay awardee T. M. Krishna's book on mridangam, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) leader Thol. Thirumavalavan on Sunday charged that it was proof that the country was being ruled by those who had faith in ‘Manu dharma’.

Three people suffered injuries in a terrorist attack in south London on Sunday, during which Scotland Yard officers shot dead a terror suspect strapped with a “hoax bomb“.

More than a handful of Democrats will compete with each other and indirectly against a highly controversial President Donald Trump, riding high on his imminent acquittal by the Senate, as the U.S. election season kicks off on Monday night with the Iowa Caucuses.

Pep Guardiola refused to criticise his players but said they must do better next season after Manchester City wasted numerous chances, missed a penalty and had Oleksandr Zinchenko sent off in a 2-0 Premier League loss at Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday.

Barcelona teenager Ansu Fati scored twice to lead his side to a 2-1 win at home to Levante on Sunday, finding the net in a league game for the first time in more than four months and becoming the youngest player to net a La Liga double.