The Knicks plan to make top Creative Artists Agency agent Leon Rose the president of basketball operations in a stunning move by owner James Dolan.

Rose was the former agent for LeBron James and Carmelo Anthony and reps Timberwolves star Karl-Anthony Towns.

Looking at this through rose-colored glasses, the Knicks, as The Post reported on Christmas Day, have monitored Towns’ situation in Minnesota as they look to upgrade a roster that lacks star power. Towns is from New Jersey, as is Rose, who also reps Suns star Devin Booker.

On the downside, Rose also helped broker deals that landed clients Eddy Curry, Andrea Bargnani and Anthony in New York. The Curry-Bargnani additions became disasters and the Anthony haul led to one stellar season — 54 wins in 2012-13 — but ultimately was a disappointment.

Rose has close ties with Kentucky coach John Calipari, who is a CAA guy. And he’s also worked in the past with former Knicks assistant and Bulls/Timberwolves head coach Tom Thibodeau.

“His strength is his interconnections with every element of basketball — shoe companies, general managers, players,” said one person familiar with Rose’s credentials.

Rose reportedly will bring William Wesley, known as “World Wide Wes,” onto his staff, as the two have been aligned for years. Wesley is a former James/Calipari adviser and was once known as the NBA’s top mover and shaker.

Dolan, as The Post reported Wednesday, wanted to move fast on a hire, which all but eliminated Raptors president Masai Ujiri from contention and even GM stalwarts Sam Presti, Neil Olshey and RC Buford.

Ujiri’s contract expires after the 2020-21 season and he could be revisited then if Rose serves just as a stopgap. Dolan was adamant against surrendering heavy compensation in hiring a new president.

In making this hire, Dolan was eyeing the agent model that has worked for the Warriors (Bob Myers) and Lakers (Rob Pelinka).

Dolan released a statement Thursday saying he won’t sell the team and would not confirm the imminent Rose hire. A source said it will take some time for Rose to get his ducks in order and decertify as an agent.

The last time the Knicks played at the Garden before Thursday night’s game with the Magic, fans chanted “sell the team’’ late in a blowout loss to Memphis that was lowlighted by a minor brawl.

“We are actively looking for a new President of the New York Knicks and hope to conclude the search as quickly as possible,’’ Dolan said in the statement. “I am not selling, but I am determined to find the right leader for the Knicks who will ensure the long-term success of the team, just as we did with the hiring of Rangers President John Davidson.”

see also James Dolan did right by Knicks with intriguing president pick Leon Rose forged a career as a top basketball agent...

The Knicks, on path to miss the playoffs for a seven straight season, recently hired Steve Stoute, who is a friend of James, as a consultant. Stoute was influential in helping the presidential search that likely was ongoing for more than just the last two days.

Former Knicks president Steve Mills was fired Tuesday, and GM Scott Perry was promoted on an interim basis, but finds himself on shaky ground, as do his scouts. Rose may hire his own GM and support staff, which means a purge is coming, even with the Knicks owning two first-round picks following Thursday’s Marcus Morris deadline deal with the Clippers.

However, it’s noteworthy Perry has a long-term relationship with Wesley, so he could be reassigned. When Perry took over the GM job in 2018, he hired personnel men Harold Ellis, Fred Cofield, Gerald Madkins and Michael Arcieri. Their futures are unclear.

Mills’ hires included Craig Robinson, Michelle Obama’s brother, and most recently David Blatt as a consultant.

The Post reported Wednesday that Dolan fired Mills ahead of the trade deadline before it got out that he was conducting behind-the-scenes due diligence on Mills’ replacement.

For more on the Knicks, listen to the latest episode of the “Big Apple Buckets” podcast: