File photo

50 new CCTV cameras put up at protest venue

LUCKNOW: Three days after a group of women sat on a dharna at Clock Tower in Husainabad area of Old City against the new citizenship law, police registered three FIRs against protesters, including charges of rioting.Some prominent people named in the FIRs include daughters of noted poet Munawwar Rana, Sumaiya and Fauziya, student leader affiliated to Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha Pooja Shukla and Shabi Fatima, who runs an NGO.The FIRs were registered two days before the arrival of Union home minister Amit Shah in Lucknow. TOI has a copy of all three FIRs. The FIRs were lodged for violation of section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) that the police had clamped in the state capital the day the protest began. Cases have been registered against 24 identified individuals and 135 unidentified people.Cases have also been registered against 20 other unidentified individuals who had parked their vehicles outside Clock Tower.Police said that efforts are on to trace others involved through CCTV cameras. On Monday, 50 new CCTVs were installed around Clock Tower.In the first FIR registered on January 18, sub-inspector Seth Pal Singh has named 18 people along with 125 unidentified ones and booked them for rioting, unlawful assembly and disobedience to order of public servant and danger or destruction of public way.Sumaiya, Pooja and Shabi have been named in this FIR. Singh also stated that on January 17, despite the imposition of prohibitory orders, a group of 125 women without any notice started a protest against the citizenship law and proposed NRC at Clock Tower. They created mayhem, leading to spread of fear among common people, and traffic snarls. “Despite repeated warnings by policemen, (these) people failed to obey,” stated Singh. He has also named owners of 20 vehicles parked on the road.The second FIR was lodged by sub-inspector Thakurganj Kailash Trivedi on January 19. He has named Laik Hasan and Nasreen Javed for an attempt to instigate people gathered at Clock Tower on January 17. The duo was booked under charges of causing fear to public, and disobedience to public order. The third FIR by woman constable Jyoti Kumari also lodged on January 19, names four women, including Sumaiya and Fauziya, and 10 unidentified people for rioting, unlawful assembly and assault and criminal force to deter public servant in discharge of public order.Kumari has also stated in the FIR that the named women pushed her while she was on duty on January18. Additional deputy commissioner of police (west zone) Vikas Tripathi said they were collecting evidence.