Amit Shah in Mustafabad

Shah claims Delhi’s water quality poorest in country

NEW DELHI: Pledging to make Delhi the world’s best capital if BJP wins the assembly polls, Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday said BJP would spend Rs 1 lakh crore to improve the city’s civic infrastructure if voted to office.At Shiv Vihar in Mustafabad constituency, Shah said, “Modi has done so much for Delhi... but we can’t improve your roads or construct parks in unauthorised colonies or schools or set up dispensaries, as these projects can be implemented by the state government and need around Rs 1 lakh crore. Modi government aims to spend this money for Delhi. If we win the election, all efforts will be made to improve the quality of air and reduce pollution.”Speaking at a rally in Mustafabad, Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday highlighted the need to overhaul roads and improve the quality of water and condition of schools in the city. “While coming to Mustafabad, it was difficult to find a road between the potholes,” he said sarcastically.Shah questioned AAP government’s plan to clean up the Yamuna. “It is still dirty. We aim to develop the riverfront and arrange for permanent ghats so that the people of Mustafabad and neighbouring constituencies don’t have to go for makeshift arrangements every year during Chhath Puja,” he said.On city government’s free power and water schemes, he said: “People are getting bills of Rs 5,000-Rs 6,000 despite the scheme promising free power till 200 units. Kejriwal government claims to supply water in all colonies, but its quality is the poorest in the country.”Shah accused the Kejriwal government of not implementing various Central schemes, fearing it will earn praise for PM Narendra Modi.He said under Ayushman Bharat scheme, people can get health treatment up to Rs 5 lakh, but the city government doesn’t want Delhiites to get its benefits. “We introduced 112 schemes for public welfare, especially for the poor, including Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna. But Delhiites are not getting their benefits due to the adamant attitude of the state government. We promise to provide two-room-set houses in place of jhuggis and implement Ayushman Bharat scheme and PM Awas Yojana in Delhi after winning the elections,” said Shah.He said Modi government had provided ownership rights to 50 lakh residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, something that neither Congress nor AAP could do.“In fact, they were dilly dallying... After winning Lok Sabha elections, we took the responsibility and started the process of giving ownership rights to people in the unauthorised colonies. Over 70,000 people have already applied for registry,” he added.Shah addressed backto-back meetings in Karawal Nagar and Mustafabad.“This fight is between those (Kejriwal government) who do not fulfil their promises and those (BJP) who do more than they promise,” Shah said. “They promised to construct colleges and schools, bring in 5,000 DTC buses and install 15 lakh CCTV cameras, but I couldn’t find any camera on the roads here. AAP claims to have improved the education system but their results in Class IX show something else,” said Shah.Attacking AAP and Congress over CAA, Shah said a third of people in Delhi were refugees from Pakistan and Delhiites accepted them like brothers. “They (AAP and Congress) started inciting Muslims and instigating riots in Delhi. They are still saying — we support Shaheen Bagh. Congress leaders visit Shaheen Bagh regularly,” he said.Shah highlighted Modi government’s achievements in abrogation of Article 370 and securing a positive Supreme Court judgment for constructing Ram temple in Ayodhya in four months.”For 500 years, all Indians wanted a Ram temple in Ayodhya. But whenever the case came up for hearing, Rahul Baba and his lawyer, Kapil Sibal, obstructed it. Now a towering, grand Ram temple will be constructed in Ayodhya in four months.”Shah accused Kejriwal and Rahul Gandhi of backing the “Tukde Tukde gang”. “We have sent such people behind bars. But now, the Kejriwal government is not giving sanction to prosecute them,” he added.