Northeastern snapped a four-game conference losing streak with a 71-63 victory over UNC Wilmington on Thursday night at Matthews Arena.

The Huskies improved to 12-13 overall and 6-7 in the Colonial Athletic Association while the Seahawks dropped to 8-19 and 3-11. NU guard Jordan Roland led all scorers with 27 points while Bolden Brace had 11 points, 14 rebounds and six assists. Marten Linssen led Wilmington with 20 points while Jaylen Sims netted 17. The Huskies resume play at home on Saturday against second place Charleston at noon.

“It was great to get back to Matthews and get back on the winning side of the ledger,” said NU coach Bill Coen, who is in his 14th season. “We’ve been in a lot of close games this year and as frustrating as it’s been, I thought our guys came out tonight with great intent and great intensity and got us of to a great start.”

Coen notched his 236th victory at Northeastern and 158th in the CAA, tying him with former Drexel coach Bruiser Flint for second place in league history.

“I think of those things as team awards, as program awards and there have been a lot of players that have come through this program that have won a lot of games,” said Coen. “It’s been many years since I’ve scored a basket or grabbed a rebound or had an assist so whatever we have achieved here it is about the student athletes.”

The Huskies played a balanced two way game with a mixed effort from the floor. The Huskies shot 48% from the floor but a paltry 2-of-14 from behind the three-point line. The Seahawks shot 39% from the floor but converted 9-of-22 from downtown, a stat that accounted for their late second half rally. NU dominated the glass with 30 defensive rebounds, 12 of which appeared on Brace’s score sheet.

“I think today was definitely a good day on the glass,” said Brace. “It is always easier for me when everybody else is boxing out and once we get a defensive stop and get on the glass, we get out and run and that’s when we are at our best.”

Leading 34-24 at the break, the Huskies mobilized during the intermission and opened the second half with a 10-2 run to go up 44-26 into the first officials’ timeout. Brace and Maxime Boursiquot (12 points) converted 3-point plays during the surge.

The Huskies ballhandlers effortlessly dissected the Seahawks full-court pressure, worked the clock and finished plays to maintain their double-digit advantage.

Seahawks coach Rob Burke gave his guards the green light from downtown and the Huskies’ huge lead began to dwindle. Consecutive treys by UNC Wilmington guards Jake Boggs and Brian Tolefree cut NU’s lead to 50-38 with 10:12 remaining. Tolefree canned two deep shots from the corner and Sims had another to cut the Huskies lead to 58-48 with 7:31 to play.

“I though we had a good enough cushion there, but they came back and every is going to come back and take a run at you,” said Coen. “You just can’t take your foot off the gas, you got to play buzzer to buzzer and I was glad we were able to hang on.

“There were teaching moments in the game but it didn’t cost us the game.”

The Huskies’ domination of the defensive glass eventually brought Wilmington’s rally to a halt. Roland converted a turnover into a layup and Brace set up Jason Strong underneath to make 65-52 with 3:50 to play.

Brace inserted the dagger with a long toss from off the key and a pair from the line to put the Huskies up 69-52 with 2:36 to play.