National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) Chairman Priyank Kanoongo has said he has no information of illegal detention of children in jails or abuse by policemen either in Uttar Pradesh or anywhere in the country.

The violence in Washermanpet late on February 14 might just have created a Shaheen Bagh-like situation in Chennai where hundreds of women began an indefinite protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR) on Saturday.

Strikes killed more than 30 civilians in a mountainous northern Yemeni province on Saturday, the U.N. humanitarian chief for the country said, calling the attack “shocking.”

Tamil Nadu has seen a string of cases of exam fraud in recent times. The TNPSC scam — the latest to rock the State — may have not even come to light if not for the suspicions raised by a few candidates. Moreover, with fraudsters employing increasingly innovative methods to game the system, investigators have their work cut out.

The fuselage of an Air India aircraft was damaged on Saturday when its pilot lifted the plane to avoid hitting a person and a jeep that had suddenly come on the Pune airport runway during takeoff, an official said.

Actor Sidharth Shukla on Sunday beat nemesis Asim Riaz to emerge as the winner of reality show “Bigg Boss” Season 13.

The country will send up an unusually large number of 10 earth observation (EO) satellites during 2020-21, according to the latest annual report of the Indian Space Research Organisation for 2019-20. On a quick look, such a pre-ponderence of the EO launches is unprecedented and includes new categories such as the first Geo Imaging Satellite, GISAT-1.

A rickshaw-puller in Varanasi was overjoyed to receive a letter from Narendra Modi after he had sent the Prime Minister an invitation to his daughter’s wedding.

Tamil Nadu’s Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) has dipped to 57 per one lakh live births in 2019 according to the State Health Management Information System (HMIS) data.

Liverpool's Sadio Mane marked his return from injury with a late goal to crack Norwich City's resistance and secure a 1-0 win on Saturday to extend his side's Premier League lead to 25 points.