With BJP leaders incessantly talking about ‘Biryani at the Bagh’ for weeks on end, they were profoundly successful in making me build up an appetite for mutton biryani for back to back lunches and dinners from various outlets. So, two days before the Delhi elections, I decided to change tack and have a Chinese meal at a nice Noida restaurant.Since being described by a friend in government as a ‘Bengali-speaking migrant who sneaked into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh to cast my vote’ on Saturday, I have been careful to take the exit polls -- all of them predicting a thumping victory for Aam Aadmi Party ( AAP ) -- with a pinch of ajinomoto. Instead, I choose to share with you the inference I have made about the polls, rather than possible poll results, after eavesdropping on my next table at the aforementioned Chinese restaurant.True, a sample size of four doth not a healthy predictive model make. Also, granted, with no methodology worth considering ‘scientific’, overhearing the conversation between a bunch of young professionals discussing the state of the union in general, would make professional psephologists feel unpsafe.But there is a certain virtue – dare I say, ‘effective charm’ – in entering a conversation without entering it. The possibilities that arise of a respondent lying in a survey, or even in an exit poll, is drastically diminished when there is no ‘outsider’ asking questions, however scrubbed of any confirmation bias he or she may be. Instead, as in on candid camera, one is simply a fly on the wall, listening in for the pure purpose of listening in ‘invisibly’. So, in a sense, this is not an opinion piece at all, but a piece on opinions.The four friends -- in their mid-late 20s – were loud, boisterous, mixing their banter in unchaste Hindi about pre-election politics with the requisite amount of b’s and g’s that are usually bleeped out on mainstream media. Their workplace seemed to be in Noida, in some sort of service company, but one couldn’t be sure whether they were Delhi voters, or Noida residents commenting on the weekend’s polls next door. One thing was confirmed, though. The occasion for the evening’s merriment was that one of the four next to me had got a promotion.After some chit-chat about how this was a great professional achievement, conversation moved to the nation’s economy. China, according to the gathered, was miles ahead and ‘America ka to faat gaya’ was the consensus. But a difference of opinion ensued. One of the four (not the one promoted), whom I shall refer to as D’Artagnan for narrating purposes, proclaimed that the BJP administration had indeed made life much more pleasant. Not really contradicting him, the others responded by saying that the economy was, however, in a mess. One must add, at this point, that beer was lubricating their jovial yet sober conference.‘Yes, so? India is now taken seriously by the world!’ said D’Artagnan. ‘We are now respected as a country.’ No one disagreed on this aspect, and after a chicken dish arrived, the conversation veered to, well, Veer Savarkar. Naturally.D’Artagnan, clearly the most politically vocal of the four, stated how Savarkar’s fate was truly tragic – ‘He spent the last years of his life in Secular Jail (sic) in Andamans where he was hanged!’‘I don’t think he was hanged. And it was Cellular Jail,’ said the chap next to him, not too forcefully. To which D’Artagnan replied, ‘Ok, but ‘kaala paani’ is worse than being hanged! Death by hanging gets over in a second, but kaala paani… I’d rather be hanged any day!’Clearly, the other three friends were less sure about which was the better option for non-consensual death. I was itching to point out that Savarkar did not die in jail but spent 28-odd years of his life after being released from colonial prisons in Bombay. But I had no intention to enter the closed, uninhibited ring, even as I was surprised that none at the table checked Wikipedia or Google on their mobile phones (as I did just to be sure) to confirm poor Savarkar’s fate.As the evening progressed, the topic moved to the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. While the other three musketeers did not disagree with D’Artagnan that all ‘these student-types’ were ‘just troublemakers’ who ‘didn’t know anything’, one of them cheerily advised the others not to watch a particular news channel -- ‘Secular ke naam me jo kuch bol deta hai’ (It says anything in the name of being secular), adding for good effect not to watch any news channel.At this point, D’Artganan took it upon himself to hold forth about how it’s inane not to consider India, a Hindu majority country, not a ‘Hindu country’. The others, I noticed, looked a bit perturbed, and told him to lower his voice. Perhaps, my presence alerted them to notch things down a little. Or, maybe, they thought that D’Artagnan had consumed a bit too much of the good stuff.No talk about who would, or should, win Delhi’s elections was made as the bill was asked for (‘GST to g*** maar dia,’ was D’Artagnan’s response to the bill) after everyone commented that it was quite late (at about 9 pm) and they needed to catch the metro. But regardless of whether these four were, indeed, a snapshot of Delhi’s young voters on Saturday -- or if they were even Delhi voters at all -- I left the establishment coming to one and only one conclusion: Tuesday’s results will be decided by which issues matter more: national pride, ‘Savarkar’, CAA etc; or promotions, food bills, catching the metro etc. The two issues seemed, at least in the minds of the four young professionals in that NCR ( not NRC) restaurant, to reside in two separate compartments (read: as poll issues of two contesting political parties).