File photo of the Anti-CAA protest in Mangaluru on December 19.

KASARGOD: Close to 2,000 people in Kerala ’s Kasaragod district have received summons from Mangaluru police asking them to appear before their officials in relation to the probe into the violent anti-CAA protests that rocked the city on December 19 and left two people dead in police firing.A majority of those who received the notices are Muslims, and seem to have been chosen on the basis of their cellphone location on the day of the protests.Kasaragod district panchayat member Ali Harshad Vorkady said as per his estimate, around 1,800 people in Kasaragod district have got notices so far. Vorkady, who has taken up the issue with the authorities here, said: “They are falsely implicating innocent people. Worse, they are insinuating that people from Kerala were behind the riots in Mangaluru. This is dangerous and questions the right of free movement of people even to neighbouring places.”The notices, sent by an assistant commissioner of police of the Mangaluru city crime record bureau, mention the date and time for the appearance and warn that failure to appear would be construed as “evading the investigation” and invite “further legal procedure”.Kasaragod district borders Karnataka and thousands of people, including traders, fisherfolk, students and bank employees, travel to and from Mangaluru. For several small towns on the Kerala side, Manguluru is the biggest city in the vicinity and caters to their medial and commercial needs.Several people contacted by TOI were incredulous at receiving the notices. “I run a crusher unit here and I was in Mangaluru on that day for some lathe work of my machinery. I knew there was some protest going on in the city but I returned to Kasaragod soon after my work got over,” said Chengala resident Ahammed Ashif. He has been asked to appear on January 21.Muhammed Kunhi, a fish trader from Manjeshwar, said many from the fish-selling fraternity have got notices. “We depend on Mangaluru to procure fish and earn our livelihood, but now we are being termed rioters just because we were there in the city that day, that too many hours before the violence broke out,” he said.Rameela Moyyaddi from Manjeshwar got a notice even though she was nowhere near Mangaluru on December 19. Her husband Bawa had gone to procure fish from the city and had taken her cellphone, as he often does. “I was shocked, but later I came to know that many people like me have been served notice even though we did not cross the state border that day,” she said.As reported by TOI in its December 28 edition, a Karnataka government circular issued during the protests asking colleges in Dakshina Kannada district to keep tabs on students from Kerala had kicked up a storm.