Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon glammed up for the Vanity Fair Oscar Party at the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts in Beverly Hills on Sunday night.

The 43-year-old mother-of-three struck a pose in a silver-studded Dolce & Gabbana cocktail dress and bedazzled Louboutin stilettos selected by stylist Petra Flannery.

The Morning Show actress accessorized her red carpet attire with Forevermark jewelry, and hairstylist Iona Vigi made a deep side part on her flaxen bob.

Sparkly: Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon glammed up for the Vanity Fair Oscar Party at the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts in Beverly Hills on Sunday night

Make-up artist Angela Levin brought out Witherspoon's baby blues and applied her bright pink pout.

The star-studded soirée was reportedly far past Reese's (born Laura Jeanne) bedtime, but it was ultimately worth it.

The Louisiana-born blonde - who boasts 28M social media followers - posted before leaving: 'Only @beyonce could get me out of the house past 11pm.'

Glam: The 43-year-old mother-of-three struck a pose in a silver-studded Dolce & Gabbana cocktail dress and bedazzled Louboutin stilettos selected by stylist Petra Flannery

Side view: The Morning Show actress accessorized her red carpet attire with Forevermark jewelry, and hairstylist Iona Vigi made a deep side part on her flaxen bob

Ready for her close-up! Make-up artist Angela Levin brought out Witherspoon's baby blues and applied her bright pink pout

Stayed up late: The star-studded soirée was reportedly far past Reese's (born Laura Jeanne) bedtime, but it was ultimately worth it

The Instagram post drew several celebrity commenters included Kate Hudson, Beyoncé's mother Tina Lawson, Oprah Magazine, Octavia Spencer, Mindy Kaling, as well as her daughter Ava.

During the Academy Awards' ABC telecast, the Draper James founder live-tweeted her approval of her Big Little Lies castmate Laura Dern's best actress win.

'Yes [times] a million! Congratulations to my dear friend @lauradern on her outstanding performance in #MarriageStory. So proud of you!' Reese gushed.

The Louisiana-born blonde - who boasts 28M social media followers - posted before leaving: 'Only @beyonce could get me out of the house past 11pm'

'You look gorgeous!' The Instagram post drew several celebrity commenters included Kate Hudson, Beyoncé's mother Tina Lawson, Oprah Magazine, Octavia Spencer, Mindy Kaling, as well as her daughter Ava

'Yes times a million!' During the Academy Awards' ABC telecast, the Draper James founder live-tweeted her approval of her Big Little Lies castmate Laura Dern's best actress win

Witherspoon also gave shout outs to Natalie Portman for her Dior cape featuring snubbed female directors and Janelle Monae for her high-energy opening number.

The Vanity Fair bash also served as date night for the Whiskey in a Teacup author and her second husband, CAA agent Jim Toth.

The Stanford University drop-out has three children - daughter Ava, 20; and son Deacon, 16; and son Tennessee, 7 - from her marriages to Toth and Cruel Intentions castmate Ryan Phillippe.

Still going strong! The Vanity Fair bash also served as date night for Reese and her second husband, CAA agent Jim Toth

Growing up fast! Witherspoon has three children - daughter Ava, 20; and son Deacon, 16; and son Tennessee, 7 - from her marriages to Toth and Cruel Intentions castmate Ryan Phillippe (pictured December 25)

Reese will next play Elena Richardson opposite Kerry Washington's Mia Warren in the eight-episode miniseries Little Fires Everywhere, which premieres March 18 on Hulu.

Based on Celeste Ng's 2017 novel, it centers on 'the intertwined fates of the picture-perfect Richardson family and an enigmatic mother and daughter who upend their lives.'

Despite playing opposites onscreen, Witherspoon and Washington both served as executive producers on Little Fires Everywhere.

Premieres March 18 on Hulu! The Whiskey in a Teacup author will next play Elena Richardson opposite Kerry Washington's (L) Mia Warren in the eight-episode series Little Fires Everywhere