LUCKNOW: Neha, a psychology student from Hyderabad, had been a regular at the anti-CAA protests at Osmania University and Hussain Sagar Lake, adding her voice to the growing chorus against the new citizenship law. Back home, her street protests had laid bare a difference of opinion with her father on the issue.The 24-year-old was eventually stopped from joining the protests, unleashing in her a feverish need to be heard and for her fear to be acknowledged.As protests, mostly student–led, become the order of the day against the backdrop of discontent in society with the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), sections of the youth now need the help of counsellors and clinical psychologists to cope with a growing sense of hopelessness.In a post on Instagram , ‘Pause for Perspective’, a counselling organisation that aims at ‘mindful living’, has been inviting distressed students to talk. “We are a safe space and are trauma informed,” the post reads, with a footnote that no fees will be charged. “We have had over 150 students reach out to us through calls and via messages on social media just to vent their angst about the political climate in the country,” Aarathi Selvan, founder at Pause for Perspective , told ET.“There is an incredible sense of hopelessness that they have been taken over with. For some who had been part of the protests and had to also face detention, there is a paranoia that it may happen again,” she said. Selvan also said that with students coming from privileged families, there is a different dilemma where they have to face a backlash from their parents for speaking out against the law. In her counselling sessions, Selvan has been asking the students to “reflect”.Meanwhile, clinical psychologists concur that CAA has penetrated the walls of their chambers where they hold therapy sessions with people already suffering from mental health issues. “With some of my patients diagnosed with anxiety and depression, I am witnessing an exacerbation of their condition due to the political unrest,” Sujatha Sharma, a Delhi-based clinical psychologist said.Underlining the reason for the massive protests across the nation, Sharma said there is a "perceived sense of loss". Students do not feel "so great" about the future-- there is also the lack of jobs accentuating their fears.Trauma due to an instable political environment is real. A medical journal had recently revealed a study that said nearly two million adults are experiencing symptoms of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in the wake of the ongoing protests in Hong Kong.On Wednesday, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to the district magistrate of southeast Delhi expressing concern about children participating in the Shaheen Bagh protests. The body sent a letter asking the DM to "identify" the children and even arrange for their counseling, if required."The young have weak boundaries," said Monika Sharma, another Delhi-based psychologist. "A lot of them are coming under pressure for not being able to take a stand-- there is a peer pressure and a fear of being judged already adding to their pile of mental woes."