They split in 2016 after nine years of marriage, but have remained close ever since.

And Danielle Bux and her ex-husband Gary Lineker proved they were still the friendliest of exes when they dined out together in West Hollywood on Wednesday.

The 40-year-old model and the football pundit appeared in great spirits as they arrived at Rosaline for a catch up.

Date night: Danielle Bux and her ex-husband Gary Lineker proved they were still the friendliest of exes when they dined out together in West Hollywood on Wednesday

Danielle was dressed in a pair of flared trousers paired with a nude bodysuit and a camel blazer.

The chic attire was completed with beige mules and a white grab bag, while her brunette locks were tied back.

Match Of The Day host Gary was clad in a grey T-shirt teamed with a black blazer and jeans.

The pair looked totally relaxed in each other's company as they strolled along, chatting away.

Stepping out: The 40-year-old model and the football pundit appeared in great spirits as they arrived at Rosaline for a catch up

The former couple confirmed their separation in 2016 after nine years of marriage, with Danielle subsequently relocating to Los Angeles to pursue an acting career.

Danielle's relationship with Nate Greenwald, an Ivy League educated lawyer with CAA, was confirmed shortly after her move to the United States.

The model, already a parent to teenage daughter Ella, 17, from a former relationship, announced she was expecting her first child with Greenwald in February 2017.

The couple then welcomed their daughter, Romy Wren, in August 2017.

A source claimed at the time: 'Danielle and Gary remain great friends and will continue seeing each other in that capacity with Nate's full blessing.'

Newlyweds: Danielle confirmed she had married long-term partner Nate, 44, via her Instagram page in November in a secret ceremony which took place in the summer of 2019

Close: Danielle and Match Of The Day host Lineker have remained good friends since divorcing in 2016 after nine years of marriage (pictured together in 2013)

Shortly after announcing her pregnancy, ex-husband Lineker was said to be one of the first to congratulate the couple on their happy news.

Danielle confirmed she had married Nate via her Instagram page in November in a secret ceremony which took place in Nantucket, Massachusetts, in the summer of 2019.

The Welsh beauty - the ex-wife of football pundit Gary Lineker, 59 - looked stunning in her elegant silk gown and veil as she posed alongside her new husband in front of a large floral decoration.

Sources later revealed the couple - who are parents to daughter Romy, 17 months - enjoyed a low-key service on the picturesque island, a popular summer destination off the coast of Cape Cod.

An insider said at the time: 'It was a quiet family ceremony. She kept it on the down-low.'