BCCL - Non Copyright

NEW DELHI: Even as Congress’ usual suspects have called for the by now clichéd ‘drastic action’ after its rout in Delhi , some senior leaders have begun a quiet debate on why ‘Muslims voted en bloc for the Aam Aadmi Party’ despite AAP consciously keeping away from anti-CAA/NRC protests and Congress’ solid support for the ‘save Constitution’ demonstrations. The leaders believe that Delhi’s Muslims preferred AAP as it had a better electoral base among Hindu communities to defeat the BJP , a bitter truth the Congress has faced in several states but has ignored till now.“When we joined demonstrations with the anti-NRC/CAA protests and raised ‘Save Constitution’ slogans, Kejriwal was busy chanting ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ and at temples. Yet, he walked away with the votes of those for whom we were out on the streets and on the floor of Parliament. We have been taught the same lesson in state after state, yet we have chosen to ignore it. If we have only ideology but no base in the majority communities, even the minority will not waste its votes on us to fight the BJP,” said a senior Congress MP.Delhi joins the list of several politically important states where the Congress lost the Muslim vote to regional parties following an erosion in its support among Hindu communities. The Congress traditional base in such states have been systematically taken away by regional parties on the one hand and by the BJP on the other, prompting the minority community to desert it. Congress has been out of power in Tamil Nadu for 53 years, West Bengal for 43 years, UP and Bihar for 30 years, and Odisha for 20 years. Along with Delhi, Andhra and Telangana have turned barren states for Congress now.“I can understand Chidambaramji’s excitement over AAP’s show, as the Congress has been riding piggyback on AIADMK or DMK than making the state unit capable of fighting on its own. But I fail to understand Sharmistha Mukherjee’s question why Congress should outsource its fight to regional parties. Pranabda would be the best person to explain to her why it took a Mamata Banerjee to end 34 years of Left rule in Bengal,” chuckled an AICC functionary.In another set of states hosting direct fight, the BJP has displayed staying power or advancement. BJP has kept out the Congress in Gujarat for 25 years and it took 15 years for Congress to wrest Chhattisgarh, MP and Jharkhand. Only in Rajasthan, Kerala, Uttarakhand and Himachal has the Congress managed to defeat the main rival after staying out for a term. The trend of falling between BJP and regional party, hence, presents the Congress with an existential crisis amid a clueless leadership.