Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan (L) has publicly expressed displeasure over the state government’s petition against the CAA in the Supreme Court. (Source: Twitter/KeralaGovernor) Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan (L) has publicly expressed displeasure over the state government’s petition against the CAA in the Supreme Court. (Source: Twitter/KeralaGovernor)

Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Sunday sought a report from the state government for filing a petition in the Supreme Court against the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in the state without informing him.

Khan, who has been at loggerheads with the Left Front government in the state ever since it passed a resolution in the state Assembly against the CAA, made it clear he would not remain a “mute spectator” and would ensure the law of the land is upheld. “The Constitution has to be upheld and this is not a personal fight,” Khan was quoted as saying by PTI.

Last week, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government had filed a petition under Article 131 and sought the law to be declared unconstitutional and in violation of Article 14 (Equality before law), 21 (Protection of life and personal liberty) and 25 (Freedom of conscience and free profession, practice, and propagation of religion) of the Constitution.

ALSO READ | CAA under Union List, states have to implement it: Kerala Guv

The petition was filed two weeks after the Kerala Assembly passed a resolution demanding that the new citizenship law be scrapped.

Don’t miss from Explained: Why NPR isn’t NRC?

Besides Kerala, the Punjab Assembly has passed a resolution against the CAA. Other non-BJP ruled states such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, and Maharashtra have voiced their dissent with the controversial law and said that they won’t implement it.

📣 The Indian Express is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlines

For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App.

© IE Online Media Services Pvt Ltd