Shaheen Bagh has become the epicentre of protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act.

Anti-CAA protesters in Delhi's Shaheen Bagh have stopped their march to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's residence over the controversial law that has seen massive protests across the country. The protesters have decided to go ahead with the march despite failing to receive permission from the Delhi Police. "Amit Shah ji invited the entire country to come&meet him to discuss issues related to #CitizenshipAmendmentAct. So, we'll be going to meet him tomorrow at 2 pm. We don't have any delegation, anyone who has an issue with #CAA will be going," said a protester.

In a letter to the protesters, the New Delhi district police said the march will pass through two more districts and request for it has been sent to the police headquarters for further appropriate actions.

Hundreds of women, who have been sitting on protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act at Delhi's Shaheen Bagh for the last two months. The protesting women decided to talk to Mr Shah after his open invitation at the Times Now Summit on Thursday. Anyone with doubts over the CAA could seek an appointment from his office and he would be willing to meet them within the next three days, he had said.

Shaheen Bagh has been the epicentre of the protests against the citizenship law for the last two months. It was made the centrepiece of the BJP campaign for Delhi, and the subject of much of the hate speech from the party's leaders.

Here are the live updates on the protest march planned till Home Minister Amit Shah's residence:

Feb 16, 2020 14:35 (IST) Shaheen Bagh has been the epicentre of the protests against the citizenship law for the last two months. It was made the centrepiece of the BJP campaign for Delhi, and the subject of much of the hate speech from the party's leaders.

Various leaders of the BJP have made it clear that they consider the protesters as "terrorists" and "anti-nationals", and egged on crowds to shout "goli maaro" slogans at election rallies.

Feb 16, 2020 14:28 (IST) Protest march planned after Amit Shah's open invitation for debate on CAA recently



The protesting women decided to talk to Mr Shah after his open invitation at the Times Now Summit on Thursday. Anyone with doubts over the CAA could seek an appointment from his office and he would be willing to meet them within the next three days, he had said.

But the women have decided against sending a delegation. "We will march to Amit Shah's house along with everyone here. We will speak in front of everyone. We will ask him to give in writing that NRC and CAA will be taken back," a 76-year-old protester told NDTV.

Feb 16, 2020 14:21 (IST) The police, however, have not given permission for the march and are standing 500 meters away to stop the protesters.

Feb 16, 2020 14:21 (IST)



Protesters begin march till Amit Shah's residence. Protesters begin march till Amit Shah's residence.

Feb 16, 2020 14:20 (IST) Delhi: Protestors at Shaheen Bagh say, "Amit Shah ji invited the entire country to come&meet him to discuss issues related to #CitizenshipAmendmentAct. So, we'll be going to meet him tomorrow at 2 pm. We don't have any delegation, anyone who has an issue with #CAA will be going." pic.twitter.com/urVcvHmlMt - ANI (@ANI) February 15, 2020