Lucknow: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said despite international pressure, the government remained firm on crucial decisions like the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and Article 370 and will continue to do so, thereby clearing the air on the government’s possible rethink of these decisions. “Today, India is taking such decisions that had always remained neglected be it abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir or CAA. These laws were required for the nation’s interest and the country had been waiting for them for years. Despite international pressure, we were firm on these decisions and will continue to remain firm,” Modi said.Modi was speaking in his constituency Varanasi, where inaugurated several projects, including a 430-bed super-specialty hospital and a psychiatry hospital at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU). During his day-long stay there, Modi also unveiled a 63-feet statue of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay and flagged off the Mahakal Express. Starting his speech with a chant of ‘Har Har Mahadev’ at all the three events he attended, Modi also mentioned the announcement of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust and the impending construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Modi said the allotment of the entire 67 acres will “add to the grandeur of the temple”. “The Ram temple construction in Ayodhya and the Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi make for significant entries in the history of the country,” he said.He said in the past five years, projects worth Rs 25,000 crore have been completed or are nearing completion in Varanasi which has not only benefitted the city but Purvanchal and eastern India as well. On Sunday, he inaugurated and laid the foundation of projects worth Rs 1,200 crore that will develop these areas. “Connectivity projects, which include projects like the upcoming Purvanchal Expressway, will not only provide convenience to people but also generate employment and boost tourism,” he said. “When we talk about aiming at a $5 trillion economy, tourism plays a key role,” Modi said. The government is working to ensure easy accessibility for devotees to centres of faith and spirituality, Modi said, talking about the Mahakal Express that will connect the three important centres of Shaivism –– Kashi Vishwanath in Varanasi, Mahakaleshwar temple in Ujjain and Omkareshwar temple in Indore.On Namami Gange programme, Modi said projects worth Rs 7,000 crore have been completed, while those worth Rs 21,000 crore are in the process of being completed. He also spoke about “recognising” the importance of indigenous craftsmen and weavers to promote Make in India. “We should strive to buy only local goods and change the mindset that only imported products are of good quality as India is now making products of international quality,” he said. He also stressed on the “conservation and recycling of water” under the “Jal Jeevan Mission” to make the country “drought-free”. “Such large-scale campaigns cannot be run by government alone... public participation is necessary for their success,” he said. “A nation does not get its meaning from who won where and who lost where. For India, the nation is made of the culture (sanskriti) and values of its people,” he said.