NEW DELHI : There can be no bigger lie than the whole narrative that in India minorities are being stifled and freedom is being crushed, said Hardeep Singh Puri, union minister for housing and urban affairs, and civil aviation, and minister of state for commerce and industry, in an interview to Mint.

In a detailed interview to Elizabeth Roche and Gyan Varma, the union minister also said the upcoming Delhi election will be fought on development issues, both local and national. Edited excerpts.

The electoral battle for Delhi has begun, what do you think are the major issues that will dominate the campaign?

The electoral battle for Delhi has begun in right earnest and the party, which been in power for five years, has declared its candidates and BJP too has done so. Delhi is not only the national capital but it has a value which goes beyond any state assembly election.

The experience of the last five years has shown that if you had responsible governance apparatus in Delhi, many of the problems that we are facing today and which the central government is trying to resolve would not have evolved to the disadvantage of citizens. The reality is Delhi’s population at the time of Independence was 8 lakhs and by 1951, when we had the first census, population went up to 20-21 lakhs because a large number of refugees came from Pakistan. The last census, which took place in 2011, the population was already 1.6 crore. Now when the next census happens on 2021, I expect the population of Delhi to be more than 2 crores.

See what kind of neglect we have subjected Delhi to both in the time of Congress and AAP government. There are 40-50 lakh people living in areas which are described as unauthorised colonies. The question over unauthorised colonies has been hanging since 2008 and successive governments in Delhi said that they are looking into it. So the union government decided to take the initiative and got the approval of the union cabinet. And now number of people registered is over 1.5 lakhs. We plan to complete the whole process very quickly. This work should have been done by the Delhi government. Delhi election will be fought on development issues both local and national.

For two consecutive Lok Sabha elections, BJP has won all 7 seats of Delhi, how does the narrative change for assembly elections? What is the party missing in its campaign?

What happened in 2015 is what we need to understand. AAP was viewed in terms of public perception as a leading crusader against corruption. They inherited the mantle of Anna Hazare, and in public mind this was a fresh political startup and they represented change.

In 2014 general elections, it was for the first time in 37 years that BJP emerged as party with absolute majority on its own. A lot of people in the Congress party could not take it.

In the 2015 elections, the Congress party transferred its votes or the votes went by itself to AAP. Congress knew it could not win so they said anyone but the BJP.

BJP won the MCD elections and AAP came third, in 2019 general elections also BJP yet again won all 7 seats. The electorate of Delhi is not looking for theatrics.

BJP has been out of power in Delhi for more than 2 decades now, why has the BJP not been able to recover from the 1998 loss although the party managed to form union government thrice in the last 22 years?

A party in power must have a viable opposition. One of the great difficulties we are facing today is there is no opposition. The Congress should be the opposition, its the grand old party. There is a certain scramble going on, Congress along with other opposition parties. Congress did not get more than 10% of the seats in Lok Sabha both in 2014 and 2019 general elections. We would like a viable opposition with which we can deal but we cannot produce that opposition.

What happened in 1998 is democratic politics, Congress was a strong party then. But in 2014, Congress got 44. Congress leaders were shell-shocked on BJP’s victory. Today is a different ballgame because BJP is going to the people with a solid development narrative. Union government is building a capital for the next 100 years.

The controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) has seen largest and longest protests against National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the last five-and-a-half-years. How do you plan to counter the narrative and address the concerns of protesters.

If we are discussing need to reach out to youth, I completely agree with the idea, if we are talking about reaching out to students then I agree because it will ensure that our universities are centres for ideas and education and it should be respected. But there is also a very strong public perception that some people are utilising some of these developments to produce a false narrative. And there is an outright public reaction against the throwing of bricks at buses, railway or a metro train. In a democracy you are allowed to agree, disagree and dissent, you are allowed to protest but not indulge in violence. If the cause is CAA then obviously you are going to lose.

CAA is only an amendment to an Act, it has got a very limited purpose to give legitimacy to those who came in and were persecuted minorities from three theocratic and Islamic Republics. There are protests against CAA in India and there was an attack on Nankana Sahib in Pakistan. India already gave sanctuary to Muslims from other countries, and in the last six years India has given sanctuary to 600 Muslims.

The National Population Register (NPR) has nothing to do with CAA, it only wants to know how many people live in a sub-division because it will help in development projects. Government is not even asking for names in NPR. PM Modi is on record to say that there has been no discussion on National Register of Citizens (NRC) throughout the country. We should accept it.

Is there a communication gap by the union government over CAA?

I have written about it and many people have spoken about it. Its not that we did not do it. When we abrogated Article 370, or Triple Talaq, or Ram Mandir decision, we knew we needed to prepare for it and we did. In the case of CAA, its completely innocuous, people who are criticising cannot counter us. The people who are against CAA say it is linked to NPR.

NPR is raw data and PM has already made it clear about NRC. There is a shoot and scoot game going on. The message has gone to people who have taken the trouble to understand it. Some people who are hell bent on using this as an instrument to produce violence and distort the narrative, this strategy has a shelf life and they will have to pay politically.

Are you going to name a chief ministerial candidate ahead of Delhi polls? If you don’t, isn’t that a disadvantage?

It is for the party to decide. We have at least four aspirants – clearly people with long experience who could in any set of circumstances be the party’s face. There is a president of the BJP in Delhi, he’s been elected MP twice, he’s been president of the BJP, the party is fighting the election under his leadership.

There is one central minister who has been the member of the cabinet for years, he has a lot of experience in Delhi, he’s been elected many times from different constituencies in Delhi, he could be a possible face. And there are at least two others. So if you have four people there, you have to decide if you want to name one of these four or an outsider or whatever it is. The experience in 2015 was not a happy one as we tried to project someone as an outside face.

As an alumni of Delhi University and a former professor, how do you see recent incidents of violence in campuses, especially Jamia Milia University and JNU?

First of all, not as a member of the teaching faculty of one of the colleges in Delhi University and as a human being I strongly condemn, I unequivocally condemn any resort to violence no matter what the cause – ideological, sense of grievance. Violence has no place in society. If you and I disagree, let us disagree. If you are very upset with somebody you can utilise the other constitutional safeguards – you can write an article, you can file a complaint, but you have no business to pick up a brick or hurl a Molotov cocktail. So I condemn that violence totally.

You know the whole narrative that in India minorities are being stifled and freedom is being crushed, I have never heard a bigger set of lies than this.

Most of the NDA partners have voiced concerns over CAA, do you think the issue will continue to be a sore point?

Partners are always valuable. But some of them do this because either they don’t understand or some of them do it deliberately. In coalition dharma there is something called positioning. On a day Sikhs are being killed in Pakistan, one of our allies – which is a Sikh party – is talking about why not include Muslims, they will pay the price for it themselves. I tried to explain to them that Muslims are already covered. Why are you turning this into some imaginary Islamophobia?

Share Via