Yes. Seriously gracious of her!!! Would love to show her the film. https://t.co/7DfhER69Vz — Anubhav Sinha (@anubhavsinha) 1581323787000

Welcome To Parliament! Smriti Irani, Gambhir, Sunny & Others Who Took Oath As New MPs of 10 Next Prev







Play Slideshow All Hail The New MPs 18 Jun, 2019 India's 16th Lok Sabha polls were high on drama, excitement and stardom. From top actors and singing icons to sports aces, an array of celebrities joined the political race this year, and some succeeded in making it to Parliament.Weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his cabinet took the oath of office at the Rashtrapati Bhawan, it was the turn of newly-elected members of Parliament to sign up. On Monday, the new MPs - some making their debuts while others doing an encore - were sworn-in as members of the 17th Lok Sabha.From Gautam Gambhir to Sunny Deol and Babul Supriyo, here's a peek at all the celebrities who took the oath to the 17th Lok Sabha. India's 16th Lok Sabha polls were high on drama, excitement and stardom. From top actors and singing icons to sports aces, an array of celebrities joined the political race this year, and some succeeded in making it to Parliament.Weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his cabinet took the oath of office at the Rashtrapati Bhawan, it was the turn of newly-elected members of Parliament to sign up. On Monday, the new MPs - some making their debuts while others doing an encore - were sworn-in as members of the 17th Lok Sabha.From Gautam Gambhir to Sunny Deol and Babul Supriyo, here's a peek at all the celebrities who took the oath to the 17th Lok Sabha. Next Smriti Irani 18 Jun, 2019 One of the most legendary victories of this year's elections was Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Smriti Irani's win in Amethi against Congress President Rahul Gandhi. Hailing the newly-elected Union Cabinet Minister, all MPs rose to applaud Irani as she took the oath of office.The actress-turned-politician, who rose to fame as Tulsi in popular daily soap 'Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi', took the lead in Amethi as the counting of votes began and defeated the Gandhi scion by 55,000+ votes. Her win in the constituency was a major setback for the Gandhi clan who have been ruling the constituency since 3-4 decades. One of the most legendary victories of this year's elections was Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Smriti Irani's win in Amethi against Congress President Rahul Gandhi. Hailing the newly-elected Union Cabinet Minister, all MPs rose to applaud Irani as she took the oath of office.The actress-turned-politician, who rose to fame as Tulsi in popular daily soap 'Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi', took the lead in Amethi as the counting of votes began and defeated the Gandhi scion by 55,000+ votes. Her win in the constituency was a major setback for the Gandhi clan who have been ruling the constituency since 3-4 decades. Next Hema Malini 19 Jun, 2019 Actress Hema Malini, who won the 16th Lok Sabha polls from Mathura on a BJP ticket, took the oath of office as MP on Tuesday. The Dream Girl of Bollywood, who was one of the richest candidates of the elections donned a saree on her first day in Parliament. She concluded the oath with ‘Radhe Radhe! Krishnam Vande, Jagat Guru.’ This is the actress's second consecutive term in the house. Actress Hema Malini, who won the 16th Lok Sabha polls from Mathura on a BJP ticket, took the oath of office as MP on Tuesday. The Dream Girl of Bollywood, who was one of the richest candidates of the elections donned a saree on her first day in Parliament. She concluded the oath with ‘Radhe Radhe! Krishnam Vande, Jagat Guru.’ This is the actress's second consecutive term in the house. Next Gautam Gambhir 18 Jun, 2019 Cricketer Gautam Gambhir also took his oath of office yesterday. Dressed in a simple, white kurta-pyjama, Gambhir made his first appearance in Parliament.The former cricketer, who debuted in politics this year, contested elections from the East Delhi constituency. The BJP candidate, who was also this year's richest Lok Sabha candidate, made a mark in the constituency by winning the elections by a hefty margin of 3,17,000+ votes. Cricketer Gautam Gambhir also took his oath of office yesterday. Dressed in a simple, white kurta-pyjama, Gambhir made his first appearance in Parliament.The former cricketer, who debuted in politics this year, contested elections from the East Delhi constituency. The BJP candidate, who was also this year's richest Lok Sabha candidate, made a mark in the constituency by winning the elections by a hefty margin of 3,17,000+ votes. Next Sunny Deol 18 Jun, 2019 Dressed in a black shirt, actor Sunny Deol took his first steps towards Parliament today. The 'Gadar' star, who made his political debut from Gurdaspur constituency, took the oath as MP yesterday. The BJP candidate won the elections by a margin of 77,000+ votes. Dressed in a black shirt, actor Sunny Deol took his first steps towards Parliament today. The 'Gadar' star, who made his political debut from Gurdaspur constituency, took the oath as MP yesterday. The BJP candidate won the elections by a margin of 77,000+ votes. Next

NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi voted, Smriti Irani took some time off from politics, at least on social media. The Union minister took to Instagram on Sunday afternoon to praise Taapsee Pannu's upcoming film ' Thappad ' which looks at domestic violence.In her social media post, the 43-year-old actress-turned-politician said that it was not proper to hit a woman.The Union Minister who is in charge of the Women and Child Development portfolio, urged people to watch the film with their families as well.And while she admitted that she might not support the political ideology of director Anubhav Sinha or may disagree with some actors on some issues, but she 'will definitely watch' 'Thappad', which is based on the story of a woman (Pannu) who decides to separate from her husband after he publicly slaps her.In a response to a tweet, Sinha, whose past two movies - 'Mulk' and 'Article 15' - were critically acclaimed, said on Monday he would love to screen the film for Irani.The director has been quite vocal in his criticism of the BJP-led central government's Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).'Thappad', which also features Pavail Gulati, Dia Mirza, Ratna Pathak Shah, Tanvi Azmi, Kumud Mishra & Manav Kaul, is scheduled to be released on February 28.