NEW DELHI : Top leaders of the three major political parties in the Delhi assembly elections made a massive last-minute push for votes on Tuesday, with less than two days left for campaigning to end.

The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) released its party manifesto, and followed it up with as many as four public meetings by its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a public meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is trying to win the elections in Delhi after more than two decades in the Opposition, while Congress rallies were addressed by former party president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.

Kejriwal challenged the BJP to announce its chief ministerial candidate by Wednesday afternoon and said that he was willing to hold a public debate with their candidate.

“I want to tell the BJP that the people of Delhi want to know who their chief ministerial candidate is and I am ready to hold a debate with that candidate," Kejriwal said. AAP’s next course of action will be announced on Wednesday, he said.

At a public meeting in Dwarka, Modi focussed on national issues, saying Delhi needs a government that stands with the country on issues of abrogation of Article 370 and implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA.

“Those who instigate people for their politics and people who are involved in vote-bank politics, can they work for the development of Delhi? People who question police on the Batla House encounter, can they work for development?" Modi asked in his second public meeting in two days.

The prime minister once again accused Opposition parties of spreading lies on CAA. People of Delhi can see through the games of people indulging in vote-bank politics, he said. “Vote-bank politics and bad intentions cannot develop Delhi, complaints cannot develop Delhi," Modi said.

Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi addressed his first public meeting after the announcement of Delhi elections. He addressed a second meeting, along with Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.

“Modiji has said he would give employment to two crore youth. Did two crore people get jobs annually? What did the Aam Aadmi Party do for generating jobs? Did the Congress do demonetization? Did the Congress introduce the Gabbar Singh Tax (his nickname for GST, or the goods and services tax)?" Rahul Gandhi asked.

“For three hours, the (Union) budget did not address anything about employment and farmers. It was an empty speech which forgave ₹1.5 trillion in corporate taxes," he said.

Gandhi said that while Modi gave a good slogan of Make in India, no factories were set up. In a reference to the government’s divestment programme, he said it wanted to sell everything and would one day sell the Taj Mahal too.

“Real issues are not being discussed. People either talk about dividing or other countries. There are some people who claim if you question them you are a traitor...but the public knows everything. They know who are merely advertising and who promise to work. When you go to vote you have to think what kind of country and state you want," Vadra said in Sangam Vihar.

“The prime minster and the chief minister do not talk about real issues, they will not bring it up because they do not have the courage. Modi and Kejriwal won elections by repeatedly lying. Whole Delhi knows that if anyone has worked here, it is the Congress and in the future also only we can," Rahul Gandhi said at the first meeting.





Pretika Khanna contributed to this story.