CLAIM

अबे नई चीज हो गई राहुल गांधी से आजादी चाहिए इन लोगों को 😂😂😂 इनकी मदद की जाए https://t.co/1KC9cSdPVA — vedupanditbjp।भारतीय जनता पार्टी भाजपा आईटी सेल (@chokidarvedu) 1580443124000

TRUTH

VERIFICATION AND METHODOLOGY

अबे नई चीज हो गई राहुल गांधी से आजादी चाहिए इन लोगों को 😂😂😂 इनकी मदद की जाए👍👍👍👍 https://t.co/FeWFpSpJwj — Arun Yadav (@beingarun28) 1579114801000

माननीय @beingarun28 जी, ये विडियो 2019 लोक सभा के प्रचार में @ManojTiwariMP जी के क्षेत्र में दिल्ली प्रदेश मीडिया… https://t.co/E2ngCYUKon — Nighat Abbass (@abbas_nighat) 1579151057000

मेरे साथ मुस्लिम समाज ने कांग्रेस व केजरीवाल से आज़ादी माँगने की आवाज़ उठाई। @narendramodi @AmitShah… https://t.co/HRJEE3FzlQ — Nighat Abbass (@abbas_nighat) 1557207871000

VERDICT

A Facebook user who goes by the name 'Arya Deepa Malik' shared a video showing a burqa-clad woman leading a protest by raising 'azaadi' slogans against opposition leaders like Rahul Gandhi , Akhilesh Yadav, Mamata Banerjee, Sheila Dixit , Mayawati, Lalu Prasad Yadav and Arvind Kejriwal.The user shared the video with a caption in Hindi that closely translates to, "Now a new thing has happened. These people need 'azaadi' from Rahul Gandhi. Please help them." The caption gives an impression that the group seen in the video are a part of those who are protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019 and the National Register of Citizens (NRC).The video has garnered over 74,000 views and the post has been shared more than 3,400 times. An archived version of the post is here. The same video is beings shared by many individual users and pages with the same caption.The video, with the same caption, is being shared on Twitter as well.The burqa-clad woman seen in the video is Nighat Abbass and she's affiliated to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On her Twitter profile, Abbass has described herself as 'Media panelist for BJP, Delhi'.The video of Abbass leading a protest, raising 'azaadi' slogans against opposition leaders, is being shared without mentioning her political affiliation, thereby misleading people into believing the group is a part of anti-CAA protests.The video in question first went viral on social media in May, 2019 during Lok Sabha election campaigns in Delhi.On Twitter, we ran a search using the caption given in the Facebook post with the video and found the same video shared by Arun Yadav, with the same caption, on January 16, 2020. Yadav, who has described himself as the 'State IT and Social Media Head of BJP, Haryana', shared the video from his verified Twitter account.Yadav's tweet has been retweeted more than 2,300 times.A Twitter user who goes by the handle '@riturajrd' shared one of Nighat Abbass's tweets in response to Yadav's tweet.On January 16, 2020 itself, Abbass had tweeted, "Respected Arun Yadav Ji, this video was made by Delhi media panelist Nighat Abbass, that is me, during Lok Sabha election campaign in May, 2019 in Manoj Tiwari's constituency. Many of the Muslims seen in the video love BJP," tagging Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP President JP Nadda, BJP IT Cell head and spokesperson Amit Malviya and BJP national media co-head and MLC Sanjay Mayukh.We then scanned Abbass's Twitter timeline and found the same video tweeted on May 7, 2019. Sharing the video then, Abbass wrote, "In this video, you can hear the Muslim community demanding freedom from Kejriwal and Congress." In her tweet, she tagged many BJP leaders and spokespersons.If you listen to the slogans, you can hear Abbass mentioning Sheila Dixit. Congress Party fought the Lok Sabha elections in Delhi under the leadership of Dixit. She passed away on July 20, 2019.Abbass, who has more than 72,800 followers on Twitter, has described herself as 'Media panelist, BJP Delhi', 'Political Analyst', and has written "Runs an NGO, Public Speaker, Business Promotions and Marketing".Abbass's timeline has a lot of videos and tweets of her criticising the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and other opposition parties and leaders.Times Fact Check has found that an old video showing a burqa-clad woman raising 'azaadi' slogans against opposition leaders is being shared with a misleading caption that gives an impression that the woman, and the group with her, are anti-CAA protesters. In reality, the woman in question -- Nighat Abbass -- is affiliated to the BJP and the video is from May, 2019. The claim is hence false.