CAA

NRC

Bahujan Kranti Morcha

Bharat bandh

Kanjurmarg

Bharat Bandh: Members of Bahujan Kranti Morcha block road outside Bandra station 01:05

Sudden protest, protestors against CAA and NRC, stopped Mumbai's lifeline local train at Kanjurmarg rly stn on Wedn… https://t.co/MkKJPZpbzO — saurabh vaktania (@saurabhv99) 1580269116000

Central railway

Rail roko at Kanjurmarg by Bahujan Kranti Morcha.

Bandra

@MumbaiPolice few people outside bandra east station is not letting anyone ply on the rick for some strike right no… https://t.co/YfSfxPWVU5 — Nikesh (@nikeshkm) 1580269482000

@CPMumbaiPolice @MumbaiPolice Opposite HDIL bldg Bandra East 15 - 20 log stop auto. Forcing to get down ladies. https://t.co/N4yWBl6GAg — Hemal Master (@MasterHemal) 1580268350000

autos

Bahujan Kranti Morcha stages 'rail roko' in Mumbai

The rail roko at peak hours in the morning affected thousands of office-goers and college students.

Midweeks blues hit Mumbai commuters when they least expected it. Local train services on the central line have once again been affected after a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act () and National Register of Citizens () blocked trains briefly.Thehas called foragainst the new citizenship law.Hundreds of members of the organisation got down on the track during the early hours and started a rail roko atstation.Due to this, slow trains towards CSMT were halted near Kanjurmarg for a while, affecting the schedule of the local trains.The rail roko at peak hours in the morning is going to severely affect thousands of office-goers and college students who travel by the local train.The protesters can be seen holding placards against CAA and NRC."What a mess". Can't you deter people from not using the railway. Commuters are suffering due to this rail roko," said a passenger.Stating that the trains have re-started, Shivaji Sutar, Chief Public Relations Officer ofsaid, "We request people not to stop trains and co-operate with us for the smooth operation of suburban trains."Meanwhile, the Bharat bandh has also caused inconvenience to commuters who have alighted atstation following a strike in Bandra East to protest against CAA and NRC.The strike meant that many office commuters heading to BKC in particular, were forced to walk till office. The government has not informed commuters in advance and neither taken any alternate steps," said a Twitter user Maulek Desai.Another Twitter user claimed that some people are forcingto stop plying and forcing passengers to get down.Several protests are being held across the country against the CAA and NRC.On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the government has brought CAA to correct historical injustice and fulfil an old promise to minorities living in neighbouring countries.The CAA grants Indian citizenship to minorities belonging to Hindu, Christian, Sikh, Buddhist and Parsi communities fleeing religious persecution from Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh, who entered India on or before December 31, 2014.