Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath

BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday became the sixth state and fourth Congress-led government to pass the anti-CAA resolution in the cabinet. So far, Punjab, Bengal, Kerala, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have passed anti-CAA resolution.The council of ministers headed by chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday morning passed the anti-CAA resolution which will now be forwarded to the Centre. The resolution said, “Madhya Pradesh government, in order to ensure equality to all sections of people before law as intended and provided in the Indian Constitution , urges the government of India to repeal Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019.”Resolution adopted by the cabinet also said, “Madhya Pradesh government also urges the government of India not to seek new information for updation of National Population Register (NPR) 2020 from the people so that apprehensions in the minds of citizens is dispelled and only after this undertake NPR updation work.”Minister for law PC Sharma , “This is a resolution that has been adopted by the cabinet today and will be sent to the Union government.”Senior BJP leader, former minister and sitting LOP Gopal Bhargava , however, opposed the resolution. He said, “This is a laughable resolution. It won’t make any difference. Implementation of CAA is the work of the Centre, state has no role but to follow the Act passed by Parliament. State governments cannot take decisions on matters that are in Centre’s jurisdiction.”In the resolution passed by the cabinet, the Kamal Nath government reasoned that secularism is a fundamental percept of the Constitution of India that cannot be changed. “Preamble of the Constitution clearly mentions that India is a secular nation. Besides, Article 14 of the Constitution guarantees equality to all sections of people without discrimination. This will threaten the very secular fabric and tolerance in the country,” the resolution argued.“CAA 2019 which was enacted by the Parliament in December 2019 provides for discrimination in granting citizenship on grounds of religion which is not in keeping with the secular character of the Indian Constitution,” the resolution said. “After the Constitution came into effect, it is for the first time that a law has been enacted that discriminates among people on the grounds of religion. This will jeopardise the secular character of the nation and its belief in communal harmony,” it said.