Unfortunately for some shareholders, the CAA Resources (HKG:2112) share price has dived 44% in the last thirty days. Given the 92% drop over the last year, some shareholders might be worried that they have become bagholders. What is a bagholder? It is a shareholder who has suffered a bad loss, but continues to hold indefinitely, without questioning their reasons for holding, even as the losses grow greater.

All else being equal, a share price drop should make a stock more attractive to potential investors. In the long term, share prices tend to follow earnings per share, but in the short term prices bounce around in response to short term factors (which are not always obvious). So, on certain occasions, long term focussed investors try to take advantage of pessimistic expectations to buy shares at a better price. One way to gauge market expectations of a stock is to look at its Price to Earnings Ratio (PE Ratio). A high P/E implies that investors have high expectations of what a company can achieve compared to a company with a low P/E ratio.

View our latest analysis for CAA Resources

Does CAA Resources Have A Relatively High Or Low P/E For Its Industry?

CAA Resources's P/E of 8.83 indicates relatively low sentiment towards the stock. We can see in the image below that the average P/E (10.3) for companies in the trade distributors industry is higher than CAA Resources's P/E.

SEHK:2112 Price Estimation Relative to Market, January 21st 2020 More

Its relatively low P/E ratio indicates that CAA Resources shareholders think it will struggle to do as well as other companies in its industry classification. Many investors like to buy stocks when the market is pessimistic about their prospects. You should delve deeper. I like to check if company insiders have been buying or selling.

How Growth Rates Impact P/E Ratios

Probably the most important factor in determining what P/E a company trades on is the earnings growth. When earnings grow, the 'E' increases, over time. Therefore, even if you pay a high multiple of earnings now, that multiple will become lower in the future. Then, a lower P/E should attract more buyers, pushing the share price up.

CAA Resources saw earnings per share decrease by 15% last year. But it has grown its earnings per share by 5.4% per year over the last three years. And over the longer term (5 years) earnings per share have decreased 16% annually. This could justify a pessimistic P/E.

Don't Forget: The P/E Does Not Account For Debt or Bank Deposits

The 'Price' in P/E reflects the market capitalization of the company. So it won't reflect the advantage of cash, or disadvantage of debt. Hypothetically, a company could reduce its future P/E ratio by spending its cash (or taking on debt) to achieve higher earnings.

While growth expenditure doesn't always pay off, the point is that it is a good option to have; but one that the P/E ratio ignores.

Is Debt Impacting CAA Resources's P/E?

Net debt totals a substantial 412% of CAA Resources's market cap. If you want to compare its P/E ratio to other companies, you must keep in mind that these debt levels would usually warrant a relatively low P/E.

The Bottom Line On CAA Resources's P/E Ratio

CAA Resources's P/E is 8.8 which is below average (10.6) in the HK market. When you consider that the company has significant debt, and didn't grow EPS last year, it isn't surprising that the market has muted expectations. Given CAA Resources's P/E ratio has declined from 15.8 to 8.8 in the last month, we know for sure that the market is more worried about the business today, than it was back then. For those who prefer invest in growth, this stock apparently offers limited promise, but the deep value investors may find the pessimism around this stock enticing.

Story continues