Police began detaining a few men, loading them into buses, but some managed to force their way out, only to be rounded up again

NEW DELHI: Saam, daam, dand, bhed (Cajole, pay, punish, threaten) - men who gathered at Shaheen Bagh on Sunday to protest against the road closure said they believed in all these principles. The phrase, which is a part of Chanakya Niti, a text written as an advice to administrators in the Mauryan empire, found resonance with a crowd that sometimes justified and at other times called for anti-CAA protesters to be shot.Nearly 200-odd men closed in on the protest site around 11.30am. However, police held the fort and they were not allowed inside the main protest area. The men, claiming to be residents of areas like Madanpur Khadar, Sarita Vihar and Jasola, shouted slogans like " Desh ke gaddaro ko, goli maaro saalo ko."They were allowed to remain at the site till late afternoon. Towards the evening, police began detaining a few men, loading them into buses, but some managed to force their way out, only to be rounded up again."The men had gathered here to protest against the closure of the roads and wanted to march towards the protest site. The residents said they were facing trouble because of the road closure and requested police to intervene. Fifty-two people were detained and some were later released," said Chinmoy Biswal, DCP (Southeast).The Hindu Sena had called for a protest on Sunday, however, the outfit called off the march in the morning citing "national interest". "The event has been called-off after it was brought to our notice that our earlier press release and video were circulated for the purpose of fear-mongering and to fuel riot-like situation by the anti-India elements organising and supporting the illegal Shaheen Bagh protest ," said Hindu Sena national president Vishnu Gupta.The chants of the Jamia shooter, who opened fire at a student on Thursday, were also repeated by several men. " Hum denge azadi. Afzal (Guru) wali azadi . Burhan (Wani) wali Azadi . Thok ke denge azadi (We will give you freedom. Afzal Guru's freedom, Burhan Wani's freedom," a group of some 20-odd men shouted.The crowd, while chanting slogans of Jai Shri Ram and Vande Mataram, asserted their religious identities, but maintained they were not affiliated to any political group. "I am a Hindu and have come to wake up other Hindus. In 1990, our brothers were killed and thrown out from Kashmir. Their houses were captured. The people sitting at protest also show signs that they will capture the entire city," said Dheeraj Pandey, a resident of south Delhi.Another protester, while justifying the gunman who opened fire at the protest site on Saturday, said the man was "forced" to take action because he was "angry". " Logon mein bahot aakrosh hai (People are very angry)," said Pradeep.Some women also joined the protest around noon and claimed their savings are being spent on cab fares as school buses have refused to come towards their houses. "My kids use the same route to go to school and a distance of half an hour has now turned into a three-hour journey. The school buses don't come here because of traffic. My savings are all being spent on commuting," said Rekha, a resident of Sarita Vihar.In Video: Delhi: Locals march towards Shaheen Bagh, demand removal of blockade