Over the past few months, incidents of police brutality in Delhi have remained in the forefront, hitting a new low every time, with every new incident. Even as anti-CAA protesters and students fight public apathy, police brutality continues unabated.



"The students had barely reached the Holy Family Hospital when they found police standing prepared there in three layers. They were wearing steel gears, carrying flash rods, sticks and more. They started squeezing students with the steel gear. We were beaten up with shoes, flash rods and also kicked in the stomach," alleged Safura Zargar, one of the injured students.

Hundreds of Jamia students and residents of nearby areas were stopped by police on February 9 for taking out a march to Parliament against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and a possible National Register of Citizens, leading to a standoff during which scuffles broke out between protesters and security personnel.

AP

The students alleged that the police action was a “preplanned” conspiracy to stop their march by attacking them.

Students have claimed that police kicked them on their private parts, tore their hijabs, questioned their patriotism and abused them when they tried to march to Parliament against CAA and NRC.

Addressing a press conference, around 20 injured students under the Jamia Coordination Committee narrated what they claimed were police brutalities, according to a report by news agency PTI.

Don't Miss 1 K SHARES 243 SHARES 4.5 K SHARES 538 SHARES

The students claimed over 50 of them received injuries on their chest, stomach and their private parts during the scuffles.

Reuters

They said they were taken to the MA Ansari Hospital at Jamia Nagar and Al Shifa Hospital. Twelve students are in the ICU, they claimed.

The students who were speaking to the media were discharged from the hospitals.

"A senior officer threatened me in front of a group of students, 'I will tear you apart'. I told him he can do whatever he wanted, but I won't be scared. Policemen also commented on my beard and questioned my patriotism," claimed Mujibullah Sawan, another injured student.

Doctors who examined women after the attack said they had injuries on their private parts.

Denying the charges, South East DCP RP Meena said, "All allegations levelled against us are untrue. The entire protest has been videographed by us. In fact, some of our men were manhandled and they received injuries in the scuffle. No force was used against the protesters."

bccl

But an injured female student alleged, "When I saw a few students being thrashed, I rushed to help them. When I was about to cross the barricade, some policewomen pushed me down. One of the male policemen kicked in my private part and I fainted."

She claimed she can identify the policeman who thrashed her and was ready to do so if asked to.

Another female student claimed, "Policemen stood on my thigh. I have suffered a ligament tear. They tore my hijab. Policewomen passed lewd comments like 'take her in a corner and teach her what Constitution is'."

The women students brought their purported medical reports as evidence of the injuries, while the male students presented photos of the injuries.

With Inputs From Agencies