A few students of Gargi College, in a blog, alleged that some "drunken men" -- said to be pro-CAA demonstrators -- had entered the women college's campus and misbehaved with students. The students claimed that the drunk men had masturbated at them.



Reports suggest that the lackadaisical security at the girls college was the reason how some goons entered the premises and molested the female students.

The incident, the students say, took place on February 6, Day 3 of the annual festival 'Reverie'. A group of drunken men reportedly entered the college affiliated to Delhi University, and manhandled the students.

Twitter

"Girls were groped, locked in washrooms, stalked to the nearby Green Park metro, cat-called, eve-teased and misbehaved with during the festival," read the blog of one of the students of Gargi College.

The blog added: "The men were allegedly shouting 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans that made us presume they had 'Hindutva/BJP' affiliation. We don't know how true this is as those who witnessed the episode are scared to come forward."

Don't Miss 138 SHARES 3.9 K SHARES 669 SHARES

Isn't @AmitShah responsible for law and order in Delhi?

A group of BJP/Sanghi men from a pro-CAA rally barged into Delhi's Gargi college when their fest was happening, molested girls & masturbated at them

I bet that there won't be a single arrest madehttps://t.co/hBy2YT7ZPe — Srivatsa (@srivatsayb) February 9, 2020

And just why is no media channel reporting this case of blatant mass harassment? Disturbs "peace", does it? Or further reflects the attitude of admin and police forces that don't respond in time? #GargiCollege @MirrorNow @fayedsouza @ndtv @thewire_in @TheQuint https://t.co/Zdauptb7Df — Amrita (@MySoulsCompany) February 7, 2020

A truck-full of middle-aged men barged into Gargi College in the national capital. They were reportedly wearing saffron & chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' as they groped & assaulted the horrified girl students.

A wise man once said- "Rioters can be recognised by their clothes." — PuNsTeR™ (@Pun_Starr) February 9, 2020

A thread on what happened at Gargi College on 6th February, 2020 during Reverie, the annual fest of the college. (1/8) — kar (@donpenguinii) February 8, 2020

A student on the condition anonymity told IANS: "I can't confirm the allegations of molestation but a large a group of drunken men had dropped in and manhandled students."

"We will hold a discussion and stage a protest," the student said.

The college administration has not made any comment on the incident yet.

The All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA) condemned the incident and demanded that the police take cognisance of the alleged incident and immediately book the culprits. "A group of pro-CAA protestors passed by and broke into the premises. They scaled the walls of the college to enter it. They were drunk and shouted Jai Shri Ram slogans. They molested and manhandled the girls," it said in a statement, according to news agency PTI.

