AGRA: BJP MP from Aligarh, Satish Gautam , has asked social activist Sumaiya Rana , daughter of leading Urdu poet Munawwar Rana, to go to Pakistan since she claims to be feeling suffocated in “today’s India”.Sumaiya Rana, visited Aligarh on Saturday and addressed anti-CAA protestors of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) and accused the police of using "coercive measures" to crush protests against the amended citizenship law and said such measures are "very suffocating" for the people. She said, “polarisation strategies are being formed every time in today’s India which are creating a suffocating atmosphere. Though every community including Dalit, Christians are involved in anti-CAA protest, government is blaming only the Muslims”.Talking to reporters in Aligarh, Gautam, said that if Sumaiya is feeling suffocated in India, where she can take liberties to say such things, then she should go to Pakistan. He said, “it is unfortunate that she speaks such language in a country where she lives with full freedom. This would not be possible in Pakistan”.Gautam questioned as to why Sumaiya did not speak when women from her community were feeling suffocated due to “triple talaq”. “BJP government was the one which gave justice to the victims of triple talaq by enacting a law against it, but she never said anything in this regard,” he said, adding that she is supporting only JNU, Shaheen Bagh , and AMU.The MP claimed that she had given this statement solely to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere of the campus, where a few students have been protesting against the CAA since December 16. “I was not expecting this from her as she belongs to a very cultured family. She should have taught good things to students, who are raising slogans against the country” said Gautam.He also warned of action against students protesting against the CAA at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus. He said, “Those who are protesting in the campus will be out from the varsity from the next academic session as they have all been identified by the police”.“Government’s aim is to guide students first and if they don’t understand then they will face action like Dr Kafeel Khan , who addressed anti-CAA protestors here and was later arrested by police from Bihar,” said the MP.Sumaiya visited the university with the student leader Maskoor Ahmah Usmani, former president of AMU students’ union. The social activist told reporters, "We are holding all-women protests which are completely peaceful and as per the democratic rights, but as we have seen in Lucknow, the UP police is using coercive measures to crush our protests.” She tried to address women protesters at Shahjamal Eidgah, but was denied permission by the police.