Nagpada police had on Friday booked 300 women under section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of IPC, se... Read More

Two cops transferred

MUMBAI: A group of women sang 'Hum Honge Kaamyab Ek Din' at Mumbai Bagh to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC), as others coming to join them were being stopped by police on Saturday. Police told the women to sign notices, which few did.Police had filed an FIR against around 300 women staging a protest on Friday night. The women, who are leading the protest, stated that they would not call it off till the Union government rolled back NRC.The notices, issued under section 149 of CrPC, stated that police had been telling protesters since January 26 not to continue the stir as no permission was taken. “There could be a law and order problem. Traffic is affected and local residents are facing a problem. If something happens in the law and order situation, you will be held responsible and action will be initiated against you. This notice will be used as evidence against you in the court,” the notice read. Police also noted down names and contact numbers of women going to the site.A team on Saturday morning landed at the Marol residence of activist Feroze Mithiborwala and issued a copy of the notice to him too. He said BMC was known for doing work slowly, and all of a sudden, it wants to carry out work on that road.Nagpada police had on Friday booked 300 women under section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of IPC, sections of Criminal Amendment Act and BMC Act. BMC assistant commissioner Alka Sasaane, who lodged the complaint, said road construction was being done but due to the protest, there were obstacles in completing it. There were traffic issues and women seated on chairs have blocked the road, she said. Sections 313 and 314 of Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act , 1888, were invoked against the women. Section 313 states that no person shall, except with written permission of the commissioner, place upon any public place any chair, bench, box or other thing so as to form an encroachment, while section 314 gives power to remove it without notice.The civic body has undertaken concretization of roads and local corporator Rais Shaikh alleged that it was ahead of time. BMC is known to take up major road repairs post-monsoon, and it is done till the next monsoon. During the four monsoon months, road work is put on hold. “BMC has lodged a complaint under police pressure. The portion of road where women are protesting was constructed and only footpath work is left. I condemn this move by the civic body, as road work in the area is ahead of time,” said Shaikh. Sasane did did not respond to calls.Police officers Ghanshyam Borse and Azim Shaikh , who are facing an inquiry for assaulting senior photojournalist Ashish Raje at the protest site on February 6, were on Saturday transferred from Nagapda police station to the control room. Additional police commissioner Veeresh Prabhu said a probe was being conducted by an assistant commissioner of police. “Suitable disciplinary action will be taken after receipt of the probe report,” said Prabhu.