In the first session after the tabling of Union Budget 2020-21, opposition parties are set to corner the Modi government over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Parliament on Monday.

Opposition parties including Congress, BSP, and the Left parties led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), have submitted suspension notices in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha over the nationwide protests against the legislation and exercises of National Population Register and National Registrar of Citizens. They also called for a repeal of the law. IUML MP PK Kunhalikutty has given Adjournment Motion in Lok Sabha over the recent incidents of firing in Jamia and Shaheen Bagh — both epicenters of anti-CAA protests.

As protests over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens (NRC) continue in different parts of the country, President Ram Nath Kovind, in his customary address to the joint session of the two Houses of Parliament to start the Budget session, hailed the passage of the CAA but made no mention of the NRC, unlike his address to the joint session at the inaugural of the 17th Lok Sabha on June 20 last year.

On the CAA, President Kovind said: “India has always believed in the principle of equal respect for all faiths. However, at the time of Partition, this very belief of India and of its people came under the most severe attack.

On Saturday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented Budget 2020 in Lok Sabha. The Budget carried a visible imprint of the Prime Minister’s fiscal conservatism, inasmuch as it kept a tight leash on expenditure, tacitly admitting there was little headroom for higher spending. For 2020-21, it projected a nominal growth rate of 10 per cent, translating into a real growth of 5.5-6 per cent

Sitharaman’s only significant intervention related to the overhaul of the personal income tax structure. While she proposed doing away with 70 of the 100 exemptions, she added two more slabs of 15 per cent and 25 per cent. She claimed the effort was aimed at simplifying the tax regime and would give more money in the hands of the middle class.

Explained | Decoding the Budget