Narayan Tripathi

‘Tripathi has exposed Sangh’s agenda’

BHOPAL: BJP MLA Narayan Tripathi went against the party line and spoke out against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on Tuesday, saying that the country should not be divided in the name of religion and cautioning that Muslims are distancing themselves because of the new law."There are issues in the country, like jobs and development, which are to be addressed. Either you believe in the Constitution framed by Baba Saheb Ambedkar or not. If you do not believe in it, just tear it up and throw it. India is a secular country and it should not be divided in the name of religion," Tripathi said on Tuesday.Justifying his decision to oppose CAA, Tripathi said, "I come from a village and it is not easy for people to even make Aadhaar cards for identification. People have to carry papers to local offices for days. We talk about 'Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam' (the world is one family), but the new Act is dividing the community in villages. Muslims who had been greeting us like brothers have now turned unknown. They are not responding to any of our calls," he said.Opposing CAA was his personal opinion and not related to the party, he said. "I have no issue with the party, except for CAA. I will continue to oppose the law," he said.Congress seized on the BJP MLA’s hard talk on CAA to criticize the saffron party. “Even in BJP, leaders are opposing CAA which is dividing the country in the name of religion. This is a lesson for BJP that the conspiracy against the country will not be successful,” said Congress state spokesperson J P Dhanopia.“Not only common people, conscientious leaders of BJP have begun opposing their party’s divisive policies. BJP MLA Narayan Tripathi has exposed his party’s and the Sangh’s communal agenda. Tripathi has blown the bugle of revolt against divisive forces and has spoken up for unity and integrity of the country,” said PCC media cell chief Shobha Oza. Tripathi’s statement has given a big jolt to BJP, which is midway through a drive to spread awareness on CAA. “Tripathi is with BJP and will remain with the party. BJP’s stand on CAA is clear. If he (Tripathi) has any confusion on the issue, the party will talk to him to resolve the doubts,” said BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.