Industrialist Anil Ambani arrives at CST; CAA posters spotted at the Mumbai marathon; participants on the Bandra-Worli Sealink. (Express photos/Varinder Chawla/Nirmal Harindran/Amit Chakravarty) Industrialist Anil Ambani arrives at CST; CAA posters spotted at the Mumbai marathon; participants on the Bandra-Worli Sealink. (Express photos/Varinder Chawla/Nirmal Harindran/Amit Chakravarty)

Mumbai Marathon 2020: A 65-year-old man on Sunday died during the 17th edition of the Tata Mumbai Marathon that was flagged off by Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray and witnessed the participation of more than 55,000 people.

Doctors said Gajanan Manjalkar suffered a cardiac arrest and had no pulse when he was brought to Bombay Hospital. “He was immediately rushed here but was already dead,” Dr Gautam Bhanushali said.

Lyricist-writer Gulzar at the Mumbai marathon on Sunday. (Express photo/Varinder Chawla) Lyricist-writer Gulzar at the Mumbai marathon on Sunday. (Express photo/Varinder Chawla)

Eight people, on the other hand, were rushed to Bombay Hospital during the run.

Posters urging citizens to support the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which had sparked widespread protests across the country, were also spotted at the event.

The participants on the Bandra-Worli Sea Link on Sunday. (Express photo/Amit Chakravarty) The participants on the Bandra-Worli Sea Link on Sunday. (Express photo/Amit Chakravarty)

The marathon was flagged off at 7.20 am from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and will pass many of the city’s iconic locations such as Flora Fountain, Marine Drive, Chowpatty, Haji Ali, Mahim Church and the Bandra-Worli Sea Link before ending at the starting point.

Actor Tiger Shroff at the Mumbai marathon on Sunday. (Express photo/Varinder Chawla) Actor Tiger Shroff at the Mumbai marathon on Sunday. (Express photo/Varinder Chawla)

Authorities have roped in Bollywood actor Tiger Shroff as the face of the event, with seven-time Olympic medalist and nine-time gymnastics world champion Shannon Miller being the event’s international brand ambassador.

Industrialist Anil Ambani and Bollywood actor Shamita Shetty were among those who participated in the event.

On the other hand, the half-marathon and police cup began at 5.15 am from the same spot.

The event has seen 55,322 registrations, around 19 per cent more from last year when 46,414 people registered for it. As per record, there has been 35 per cent increase in women’s participants, with 15,890 women registering for this year’s race as compared to 11,805 last year.

📣 The Indian Express is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlines

For all the latest Mumbai News, download Indian Express App.