Resolution against CAA in European Parliament; India’s Measures

On January 29, 2020, the European Parliament is set to discuss the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).

Highlights

Though the resolution made by the parliament do not affect the decision of the European Council or commission, it might impinge the bilateral relations between India and European Union. PM Modi is to visit Brussels in March 2020 to attend India-EU summit and the External Affairs Minister is scheduled to visit in mid-February.

Six Resolutions

Around six resolutions are to be taken up for discussion in the EU Parliament. It includes

Implementation of NRC in Assam and the security lock down in Jammu and Kashmir

Resolution moved by the S&D Group is one of largest resolution with 154 members supporting it. According to the resolution, the CAA has the potential to create largest statelessness crisis in the world. S&D group is the Socialist and Democratic Group

The resolution by EPP Group with 182 members supporting it says that the law could have negative international image for India. The EPP Group is the European People’s Party Group.

India’s Measures

The Lok Sabha Speaker has written to the European Parliament requesting the EU parliament to respect sovereign processes of fellow legislatures.

Also, India believes that CAA is an internal matter and is not yet settled within India. There are more than 20 pending cases on CAA in the Supreme Court.

However, there has not been any official response towards EU’s move from the Ministry of External Affairs.

Supreme Court on CAA

The Supreme Court on January 22, 2020 pronounced its decision on CAA without hearing the case. The apex court has given 4 weeks for the centre to respond to the petitions that challenged CAA.

India-EU relations

The European Union is India’s largest trading partner. The European Union account to 92 billion Euros (2018-19) of trade. It accounts to 18% of Indian Exports

Get these updates on Current Affairs Today Android App

Advertisement

Month:Current Affairs - January, 2020

Categories: International

Tags: Citizenship (Amendment) Bill 2019 • European Union • India-European Union • Internet • Jammu and Kashmir

