A passenger on a British Airways flight was shocked to find a gun and the passport of former UK Prime Minister David Cameron in the airplane's toilet, according to The Sun.

The paper has suggested that the loaded gun was left there after the bodyguard removed his holster to use the toilet.

The pilot tried to calm passengers down, but the gun was taken off the flight after the find reportedly "freaked everyone out".

Police have confirmed that the bodyguard, who is part of Cameron's specialist protection unit, has been suspended.

Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.

A loaded gun and the passport of former UK Prime Minister David Cameron were among items found by a passenger in the toilet of a British Airways airplane, according to various media reports.

Cameron was travelling business class on the flight from New York to London on Monday, which reportedly set off 67 minutes late after the incident.

One passenger told the paper: "We were waiting to take off when a guy started to show pictures on his phone of a gun and two passports. One was David Cameron's – he said he found [it] in the toilet. They were just resting on the side by the sink. He was stunned by what he saw."

Passengers on the flight told The Sun newspaper that there was "a real commotion" at the discovery, and despite attempts to calm people down the gun – reported to be a Glock 19 semi-automatic – was removed from the plane.

"The captain confirmed a gun had been found — which freaked everyone out."

A Glock 19 of the type reportedly abandoned in the toilet of David Cameron's airplane Michel Delsol/Getty Images

A 33-year-old businessman, who was not named by The Sun, told the paper that the captain had tried to calm people down by saying that protection officers are legally allowed to bring handguns onto flights.

"But a guy wasn't having it," said the businessman.

"He said he felt uncomfortable about guns being allowed on the plane. The captain left and came back a few minutes later to say the gun had been removed from the plane."

In a statement to The Sun, the Metropolitan Police said: "The officer involved has since been removed from operational duties. We are taking this matter extremely seriously and an internal investigation is taking place."

A British Airways spokeswoman said: "We follow CAA rules which allow UK police to carry firearms on board in specific, controlled circumstances. Our crew dealt with the issue quickly before departure and the flight continued as normal."